117. Hereditary Diffuse Gastric Cancer.Kaurah P(1), Huntsman DG(2).In: Adam MP, Ardinger HH, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Stephens K, Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews® [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of Washington,Seattle; 1993-2018.2002 Nov 4.Author information: (1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,British Columbia, Canada(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BritishColumbia, CanadaCLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC) is anautosomal dominant susceptibility for diffuse gastric cancer, a poorlydifferentiated adenocarcinoma that infiltrates into the stomach wall causingthickening of the wall (linitis plastica) without forming a distinct mass.Diffuse gastric cancer is also referred to as signet ring carcinoma or isolatedcell-type carcinoma. The average age of onset of HDGC is 38 years (range: 14-69years). The majority of the cancers in individuals with a CDH1 pathogenic variantoccur before age 40 years. The estimated cumulative risk of gastric cancer by age80 years is 70% for men and 56% for women. Women are also at a 42% risk forlobular breast cancer.DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: A diagnosis of HDGC is established in a proband with: Diffuse gastric cancer (DGC) and a family history of one or more first- or second-degree relatives with GC; OR A personal and/or family history of DGC diagnosed beforeage 40 years; OR A personal and/or family history of DGC and LBC, one diagnosedbefore age 50 years. If clinical features and family history are inconclusive,identification of a heterozygous germline CDH1 pathogenic variant by moleculargenetic testing confirms the diagnosis and allows for family studies.MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Ideally, management of individuals whohave a CDH1 cancer-predisposing variant is either intense surveillance for early detection and treatment of gastric cancer or prophylactic total gastrectomy. Careby a multidisciplinary team comprising those with expertise in medical genetics, gastric surgery, gastroenterology, pathology, and nutrition is recommended. Forwomen, referral to a high-risk breast cancer clinic is recommended; prophylactic mastectomy may be considered. Surveillance: To date, the optimal management ofindividuals at risk for a cancer-predisposing variant has been controversialbecause of the unproven value of surveillance regimes and the potential morbidityand mortality from prophylactic gastrectomy. Pregnancy management: Women who haveundergone prophylactic total gastrectomy (PTG) and are pregnant should befollowed closely by their physician and a dietician who is aware of thesituation.GENETIC COUNSELING: Hereditary diffuse gastric cancer is inherited in anautosomal dominant manner. The vast majority of individuals with a pathogenicvariant predisposing to diffuse gastric cancer have inherited it from one parent.De novo pathogenic variants have been reported. Each child of a proband has a 50%risk of inheriting the cancer-predisposing variant. Prenatal testing forpregnancies at increased risk is possible if the pathogenic variant in the familyis known; however, requests for prenatal testing for conditions that (like HDGC) do not affect intellect and have some treatment available are not common.PMID: 20301318 