133. Cancer Sci. 2018 Apr;109(4):1101-1109. doi: 10.1111/cas.13527. Epub 2018 Mar 6.Metastatic ability and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in induced cancerstem-like hepatoma cells.Nishiyama M(1), Tsunedomi R(1), Yoshimura K(2), Hashimoto N(1), Matsukuma S(1),Ogihara H(3), Kanekiyo S(1), Iida M(1), Sakamoto K(1), Suzuki N(1), Takeda S(1), Yamamoto S(1), Yoshino S(4), Ueno T(5), Hamamoto Y(3), Hazama S(6), Nagano H(1).Author information: (1)Department of Gastroenterological, Breast and Endocrine Surgery, YamaguchiUniversity Graduate School of Medicine, Ube, Japan.(2)Division of Cancer Immunotherapy, Exploratory Oncology Research and ClinicalTrial Center, National Cancer Center, Tokyo, Japan.(3)Division of Electrical, Electronic and Information Engineering, YamaguchiUniversity Graduate School of Sciences and Technology for Innovation, Ube, Japan.(4)Oncology Center, Yamaguchi University Hospital, Ube, Japan.(5)Department of Digestive Surgery, School of Medicine, Kawasaki Medical School, Kurashiki, Japan.(6)Department of Translational Research and Developmental Therapeutics againstCancer, Yamaguchi University Faculty of Medicine, Ube, Japan.Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are thought to play important roles in cancermalignancy. Previously, we successfully induced sphere cancer stem-like cells(CSLCs) from several cell lines and observed the property of chemoresistance. In the present study, we examined the metastatic potential of these induced CSLCs.Sphere cancer stem-like cells were induced from a human hepatoma cell line(SK-HEP-1) in a unique medium containing neural survival factor-1. Splenicinjection of cells into immune-deficient mice was used to assess hematogenousliver metastasis. Transcriptomic strand-specific RNA-sequencing analysis,quantitative real-time PCR, and flow cytometry were carried out to examine theexpression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related genes. Splenicinjection of CSLCs resulted in a significantly increased frequency of livermetastasis compared to parental cancer cells (P < .05). In CSLCs, a mesenchymalmarker, Vimentin, and EMT-promoting transcription factors, Snail and Twist1, wereupregulated compared to parental cells. Correspondingly, significant enrichmentof the molecular signature of the EMT in CSLCs relative to parental cancer cells was shown (q < 0.01) by RNA-sequencing analysis. This analysis also revealeddifferential expression of CD44 isoforms between CSLCs and parental cancer cells.Increasing CD44 isoforms containing an extra exon were observed, and the standardCD44 isoform decreased in CSLCs compared to parental cells. Interestingly,another CD44 variant isoform encoding a short cytoplasmic tail was alsoupregulated in CSLCs (11.7-fold). Our induced CSLCs possess an increased livermetastatic potential in which promotion of the EMT and upregulation of CD44variant isoforms, especially short-tail, were observed.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.DOI: 10.1111/cas.13527 PMCID: PMC5891178PMID: 29417690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]