125. JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep. 2018 Feb;16(2):453-506. doi:10.11124/JBISRIR-2016-003185.Clinical effectiveness of decongestive treatments on excess arm volume andpatient-centered outcomes in women with early breast cancer-related armlymphedema: a systematic review.Jeffs E(1)(2), Ream E(3), Taylor C(1)(3), Bick D(4).Author information: (1)Florence Nightingale Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.(2)The Nottingham Centre for Evidence Based Healthcare: a Joanna Briggs InstituteCentre of Excellence.(3)School of Health Sciences, University of Surrey, Guildford, United Kingdom.(4)Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London, London, UnitedKingdom.OBJECTIVE: To identify the effect of decongestive lymphedema treatment on excess arm volume or patient-centered outcomes in women presenting within either 12months or a mean nine months of developing arm lymphedema following breast cancertreatment.INTRODUCTION: Lymphedema is a common consequence of breast cancer treatmentrequiring life-long treatment to reduce symptoms and prevent complications.Currently, evidence to inform the optimal decongestive lymphedema treatmentpackage is lacking.INCLUSION CRITERIA: The review included studies on women who received lymphedema treatment within either 12 months or a mean of nine months of developingunilateral breast cancer-related arm lymphedema. The intervention was anydecongestive lymphedema treatment delivered with the purpose of reducing armlymphedema, compared to another form of lymphedema treatment (whether self orpractitioner-administered), placebo or no treatment. The clinical outcome wasexcess arm volume; patient-centered outcomes were health-related quality of life,arm heaviness, arm function, patient-perceived benefit and satisfaction withtreatment. Experimental study designs were eligible, including randomized andnon-randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental, prospective andretrospective before and after studies were considered.METHODS: A three-step search strategy was utilized to find published andunpublished studies. The search identified studies published from the inceptionof each database to July 6, 2016. Reference lists were scanned to identifyfurther eligible studies. Studies were critically appraised using appropriatestandardized critical appraisal instruments from the Joanna Briggs Institute.Details describing each study and treatment results regarding outcomes ofinterest were extracted from papers included in the review using appropriatestandardized data extraction tools from the Joanna Briggs Institute. Due toheterogeneity in included studies, results for similar outcome measures were not pooled in statistical meta-analysis. A narrative and tabular format was used tosynthesize results from identified and included studies.RESULTS: Seven studies reporting results for outcomes of interest were criticallyappraised and included in the review: five randomized controlled trials and twodescriptive (uncontrolled) studies. Reported outcomes included excess arm volume (five studies), health-related quality of life (three studies), arm heaviness(one study), arm function (two studies) and patient-perceived benefit (twostudies). There was some evidence that decongestive treatments were effective forwomen presenting within either 12 months or a mean of nine months of developingbreast cancer-related arm lymphedema, but the wide range of data preventedcomparison of treatment findings which limited our ability to answer the reviewquestions.CONCLUSIONS: Weak evidence (grade B) for the impact of decongestive lymphedematreatment on women with early lymphedema (i.e. less than 12 months duration ofBCRL symptoms) did not allow any conclusions to be drawn about the most effectivetreatment to be offered when these women first present for treatment. Findingsprovided no justification to support change to current practice.Future primaryresearch needs to focus on the most effective treatment for women when they firstpresent with lymphedema symptoms, e.g. treatment provided within 12 months ofdeveloping symptoms. Studies should be adequately powered and recruit womenexclusively with less than 12 months duration of breast cancer-related lymphedemasymptoms, provide longer follow-up to monitor treatment effect over time, withcomparable treatment protocols, outcome measures and reporting methods.DOI: 10.11124/JBISRIR-2016-003185 PMCID: PMC5828398PMID: 29419623 