186. Semin Cancer Biol. 2018 Feb 8. pii: S1044-579X(17)30233-X. doi:10.1016/j.semcancer.2018.02.005. [Epub ahead of print]Immuno-oncology-101: overview of major concepts and translational perspectives.Allard B(1), Aspeslagh S(2), Garaud S(3), Dupont FA(4), Solinas C(3), Kok M(5),Routy B(6), Sotiriou C(4), Stagg J(1), Buisseret L(7).Author information: (1)University of Montreal Hospital Research Centre, Montréal, Québec, Canada;Montreal Cancer Institute, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Faculty of Pharmacy,Université de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.(2)Department of Medicine, Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.(3)Molecular Immunology Unit, Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre deBruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.(4)Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory J-C Heuson, Institut JulesBordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.(5)Department of Medical Oncology and Immunology, The Netherlands CancerInstitute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(6)University of Montreal Hospital Research Centre, Montréal, Québec, Canada;Montreal Cancer Institute, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.(7)Department of Medicine, Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium; Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory J-C Heuson,Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.Electronic address: laurence.buisseret@bordet.be.Cancer immunotherapy is demonstrating impressive clinical benefit in differentmalignancies and clinical oncologists are increasingly turning their attention toimmune-oncology. It is now well recognized that innate and adaptive immune cells infiltrating tumors are associated with clinical outcomes and responses totreatments, and can be harnessed to patients' benefit. Considerable advances havealso been made in understanding how cancers escape from immune attack. Targeting of immunological escape processes regulated by the expression of immunecheckpoint receptors and ligands and the down-modulation of tumor antigenpresentation is the basis of immuno-oncology treatments. Despite recentachievements, there remain a number of unresolved issues in order to successfullyimplement cancer immunotherapy in many cancers. Importantly, clinical biomarkers are still needed for better optimization of emerging combination immunotherapies and better treatment tailoring. In this review, we summarize the function ofinnate and adaptive immune cells in anti-tumor immunity and the generalmechanisms exploited by tumor cells to escape and inhibit immune responses aswell as therapeutic strategies developed to overcome these mechanisms and discussemerging biomarkers in immuno-oncology.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.semcancer.2018.02.005 PMID: 29428479 