170. Pathology. 2018 Apr;50(3):333-341. doi: 10.1016/j.pathol.2017.11.087. Epub 2018Feb 9.An automated staining protocol for seven-colour immunofluorescence of humantissue sections for diagnostic and prognostic use.Lim JCT(1), Yeong JPS(2), Lim CJ(3), Ong CCH(1), Wong SC(4), Chew VSP(3), AhmedSS(1), Tan PH(5), Iqbal J(6).Author information: (1)Department of Anatomical Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.(2)Department of Anatomical Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore;Singapore Immunology Network, Agency of Science, Technology and Research,Singapore.(3)SingHealth Translational Immunology and Inflammation Centre, Singapore.(4)Singapore Immunology Network, Agency of Science, Technology and Research,Singapore.(5)Division of Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore; Duke-NUS MedicalSchool, Singapore.(6)Department of Anatomical Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore;Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore. Electronic address:jabed.iqbal@singhealth.com.sg.Multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) allows simultaneous antibody-based detectionand quantification of the expression of up to six markers, plus a nuclearcounterstain, on a single tissue section. Recent studies have shown the potentialfor mIF to advance our understanding of complex disease processes, includingcancer. It is important that the technique be standardised and validated tofacilitate its transition into clinical use. Traditional approaches to mIF relyon manual processing of sections, which is time-consuming and a source ofsignificant variation between samples/individuals. Here we determined if anautomated diagnostic tissue stainer could be used for mIF incorporating tyramide signal amplification (TSA), and how the final image quality compared withsections stained semi-automatically or manually. Using tissue microarrays offixed human breast tumour sections, we observed comparable antibody labellingbetween the diagnostic autostainer and manual technique. The diagnosticautostainer produced higher signal intensity with similar spectral unmixingefficiency. We also found that microwave treatment for antibody stripping during TSA labelling could be replaced by the heating option incorporated within thediagnostic-use autostainer. These data show that diagnostic autostainers used fortraditional immunohistochemistry protocols can be readily adapted to achieverapid preparation of high-quality sections using a TSA method for clinical mIF.Copyright © 2018 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published byElsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2017.11.087 PMID: 29429740 