8. J Appl Clin Med Phys. 2018 Mar;19(2):137-143. doi: 10.1002/acm2.12269. Epub 2018 Feb 10.Evaluation of surface and shallow depth dose reductions using a Superflab bolusduring conventional and advanced external beam radiotherapy.Yoon J(1), Xie Y(1), Zhang R(1)(2).Author information: (1)Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.(2)Mary Bird Perkins Cancer Center, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.The purpose of this study was to evaluate a methodology to reduce scatter andleakage radiations to patients' surface and shallow depths during conventionaland advanced external beam radiotherapy. Superflab boluses of differentthicknesses were placed on top of a stack of solid water phantoms, and the bolus effect on surface and shallow depth doses for both open and intensity-modulatedradiotherapy (IMRT) beams was evaluated using thermoluminescent dosimeters andion chamber measurements. Contralateral breast dose reduction caused by the boluswas evaluated by delivering clinical postmastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT) plans to an anthropomorphic phantom. For the solid water phantom measurements, surfacedose reduction caused by the Superflab bolus was achieved only in out-of-fieldarea and on the incident side of the beam, and the dose reduction increased with bolus thickness. The dose reduction caused by the bolus was more significant atcloser distances from the beam. Most of the dose reductions occurred in the first2-cm depth and stopped at 4-cm depth. For clinical PMRT treatment plans, surface dose reductions using a 1-cm Superflab bolus were up to 31% and 62% forvolumetric-modulated arc therapy and 4-field IMRT, respectively, but there was nodose reduction for Tomotherapy. A Superflab bolus can be used to reduce surfaceand shallow depth doses during external beam radiotherapy when it is placed outof the beam and on the incident side of the beam. Although we only validated thisdose reduction strategy for PMRT treatments, it is applicable to any externalbeam radiotherapy and can potentially reduce patients' risk of developingradiation-induced side effects.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics published byWiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Association of Physicists inMedicine.DOI: 10.1002/acm2.12269 PMCID: PMC5849823PMID: 29427312 