38. Drug Test Anal. 2018 Feb 9. doi: 10.1002/dta.2369. [Epub ahead of print]The metabolism of flubendazole in human liver and cancer cell lines.Raisová Stuchlíková L(1), Králová V(2), Lněničková K(1), Zárybnický T(1),Matoušková P(1), Hanušová V(2), Ambrož M(1), Šubrt Z(3), Skálová L(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemical Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Charles University,Hradec Králové, Czech Republic.(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, HradecKrálové, Czech Republic.(3)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, HradecKrálové, Czech Republic.Flubendazole (FLU), a benzimidazole anthelmintic drug widely used in veterinarymedicine, has been approved for the treatment of gut-residing nematodes inhumans. In addition, FLU is now considered a promising anti-cancer agent. Despitethis, information about biotransformation of this compound in human is lacking.Moreover, there is no information regarding whether cancer cells are able tometabolize FLU in order to deactivate it. For these reasons, the present studywas designed to identify all metabolites of Phase I and Phase II of FLU in human liver and in various cancer cells using ultra high-performance liquidchromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) analysis. Precision-cuthuman liver slices and 9 cell lines of different origin (breast, colon, oralcavity) were used as in vitro model systems. Our study showed that FLU with areduced carbonyl group (FLUR) is the only FLU metabolite formed in the humanliver. All human cancer cell lines were able to form FLUR. In addition,methylated FLUR was detected in breast cells MCF7 and intestinal SW480 cells. Theaccumulation of FLU and its reduction to FLUR markedly differed among cells. The extent of FLU reduction was in a good correlation with the detected expressionlevel of carbonyl reductase 1. In most cases, FLU entered in a higher amount and was reduced to a lesser extent in proliferating (metastatic) cells than indifferentiated (non-cancerous, non-metastatic) ones. These results support thepromising potential of FLU in anti-cancer therapy.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/dta.2369 PMID: 29426058 