Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare thatthey have no conflicts of interest.88. Am J Transl Res. 2018 Jan 15;10(1):256-264. eCollection 2018.Inhibition of N-acetyltransferase 10 using remodelin attenuates doxorubicinresistance by reversing the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in breast cancer.Wu J(1), Zhu H(2), Wu J(3), Chen W(4), Guan X(1).Author information: (1)Department of Thyroid Breast Surgery, People's Hospital of Suqian, NanjingDrum Tower Hospital GroupSuqian, China.(2)Department of Endocrinology, People's Hospital of Suqian, Nanjing Drum TowerHospital GroupSuqian, China.(3)Department of General Surgery, People's Hospital of Suqian, Nanjing Drum TowerHospital GroupSuqian, China.(4)Institute of Molecular Engineering, University of ChicagoChicago, USA.Development of resistance to doxorubicin-based chemotherapy limits curativeeffect in breast cancer (BC). N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10), a nucleolar proteininvolved in histone acetylation, is overexpressed in several cancers. Weinvestigated whether NAT10 is involved in doxorubicin resistance in BC andexplored the potential mechanisms. Remodelin, a NAT10 inhibitor, and a NAT10small interfering RNA (siRNA) were used to inhibit NAT10; both remodelin and the NAT10 siRNA reduced cell viability and attenuated doxorubicin resistance in four BC cell lines. Remodelin and doxorubicin synergistically reduced cell viability, though knockdown of NAT10 and remodelin did not exert a synergistic effect indoxorubicin-treated cells. Remodelin upregulated E-cadherin and downregulatedvimentin, canonical markers of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT),whereas doxorubicin had the opposite effects. Moreover, both remodelin andknockdown of NAT10 reversed the doxorubicin-induced EMT. Finally, when the EMTwas blocked using a siRNA targeting Twist, remodelin could not alleviatedoxorubicin resistance. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that inhibition of NAT10 attenuates doxorubicin resistance by reversing the EMT in BC. Thisrepresents a novel mechanism of doxorubicin resistance in BC and indicatesremodelin may have potential clinical value to increase the efficacy ofdoxorubicin-based chemotherapy in BC.PMCID: PMC5801363PMID: 29423010 