3. J Ethnopharmacol. 2018 May 10;217:23-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.02.006. Epub2018 Feb 7.Mucuna pruriens (L.) DC chemo sensitize human breast cancer cells viadownregulation of prolactin-mediated JAK2/STAT5A signaling.Sinha S(1), Sharma S(2), Vora J(1), Shah H(3), Srivastava A(2), Shrivastava N(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, B. V. Patel PharmaceuticalEducation and Research Development (PERD) Centre, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India;Registered Ph.D. student at Department of Life Science, School of Science,Gujarat University, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India.(2)Department of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, B. V. Patel PharmaceuticalEducation and Research Development (PERD) Centre, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India.(3)Department of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, B. V. Patel PharmaceuticalEducation and Research Development (PERD) Centre, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India;Department of Biotechnology, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education andResearch (NIPER)-Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, 382355, Gujarat, India.(4)Department of Pharmacognosy and Phytochemistry, B. V. Patel PharmaceuticalEducation and Research Development (PERD) Centre, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India.Electronic address: neetas@perdcentre.com.ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Mucuna pruriens (L.) DC (MP) is an ancient Indianmedicinal plant traditionally used to treat Parkinson's disease. L-Dopa (LD),precursor of dopamine is abundantly found in the seeds of MP. L-dopa is a naturalinhibitor of prolactin (PRL) hormone which is required to maintain lactation inwomen but it's over production (hyperprolactinemia) plays critical role inadvancement of breast cancer.AIM OF THE STUDY: We aim to examine the pharmacological effect of LD and MP onthis hyperprolactinemia associated breast cancer and related signaling foreffective management of the disease. We also investigated chemo-sensitizingeffect of MP on hyperprolactinemia-mediated cisplatin resistance.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Methanolic seed extract of MP were prepared and analysedusing HPLC. Effect of LD and MP on the cellular viability of breast cancer cells (T47D, MCF-7, MDA-MB-468 and MDA-MB-231) were evaluated using MTT assay. Further,effect of LD and MP on colony forming potential, DNA damage, cell cycledistribution and apoptosis was determined using agar/agarose method, comet assay and annexin and PI method followed by FACS analysis. To reveal the molecularmechanism involved in the anti-cancer activity of MP, transcriptional andtranslational level analysis of the key proteins involved in the PRL-mediatedsignaling, was performed using RT-PCR and western blot analysis. The effect of MPextract on PRL-mediated signaling was validated using dopaminergic agonistbromocriptine. MP extract and cisplatin was given in different combination withappropriate controls to check their effect on chemo-resistivity of breast cancer cells.RESULTS: Our results demonstrated that MP seed extract has the potential toinhibit cellular proliferation of PRL expressing T47D and MCF-7 breast cancercells via induction of DNA damage, G1 phase of cell cycle arrest and apoptosismore effectively as compare to LD. Further, MP-mediated anti-cancerous effect wasassociated with the downregulation of PRL expression, further suppressing theJAK2/STAT5A/Cyclin D1 signaling pathway which has been validated usingdopaminergic agonist bromocriptine. Cancer-related hyperprolactinemia conferscisplatin resistance, we observed that MP via PRL inhibition, enhances cisplatin efficacy after their combinatorial treatment in breast cancer cells.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our study suggests that MP could be recommended asdietary supplement along with the chemotherapeutic agents against breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.02.006 PMID: 29427634 