191. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2018 Mar;156:73-83. doi:10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.12.028. Epub 2017 Dec 23.A case-oriented web-based training system for breast cancer diagnosis.Huang Q(1), Huang X(2), Liu L(3), Lin Y(4), Long X(4), Li X(5).Author information: (1)School of Electronics and Information, and Center for OPTical IMagery Analysisand Learning (OPTIMAL), Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710072,Shaanxi, China; College of Information Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen518060, China; School of Electronic and Information Engineering, South ChinaUniversity of Technology, Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: enicarwhw@qq.com.(2)School of Electronic and Information Engineering, South China University ofTechnology, Guangzhou, China.(3)Department of Ultrasound, The Cancer Center of Sun Yat-sen University, StateKey Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center forCancer Medicine, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: liulzh@sysucc.org.cn.(4)Department of Ultrasound, The Cancer Center of Sun Yat-sen University, StateKey Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center forCancer Medicine, Guangdong, China.(5)Center for OPTical IMagery Analysis and Learning (OPTIMAL), State KeyLaboratory of Transient Optics and Photonics, Xi'an Institute of Optics andPrecision Mechanics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xi'an 710119, Shaanxi, China.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Breast cancer is still considered as the most commonform of cancer as well as the leading causes of cancer deaths among women allover the world. We aim to provide a web-based breast ultrasound database foronline training inexperienced radiologists and giving computer-assisteddiagnostic information for detection and classification of the breast tumor.METHODS: We introduce a web database which stores breast ultrasound images frombreast cancer patients as well as their diagnostic information. A web-basedtraining system using a feature scoring scheme based on Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) US lexicon was designed. A computer-aided diagnosis(CAD) subsystem was developed to assist the radiologists to make scores on theBI-RADS features for an input case. The training system possesses 1669 scoredcases, where 412 cases are benign and 1257 cases are malignant. It was tested by 31 users including 12 interns, 11 junior radiologists, and 8 experienced seniorradiologists.RESULTS: This online training system automatically creates case-based exercisesto train and guide the newly employed or resident radiologists for the diagnosis of breast cancer using breast ultrasound images based on the BI-RADS. After thetrainings, the interns and junior radiologists show significant improvement inthe diagnosis of the breast tumor with ultrasound imaging (p-value < .05);meanwhile the senior radiologists show little improvement (p-value > .05).CONCLUSIONS: The online training system can improve the capabilities ofearly-career radiologists in distinguishing between the benign and malignantlesions and reduce the misdiagnosis of breast cancer in a quick, convenient andeffective manner.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.12.028 PMID: 29428078 