173. Am J Pathol. 2018 Mar;188(3):559-573. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2017.10.025.The Presence of Cyclooxygenase 2, Tumor-Associated Macrophages, and CollagenAlignment as Prognostic Markers for Invasive Breast Carcinoma Patients.Esbona K(1), Yi Y(2), Saha S(3), Yu M(3), Van Doorn RR(4), Conklin MW(5), Graham DS(6), Wisinski KB(7), Ponik SM(5), Eliceiri KW(8), Wilke LG(9), Keely PJ(5).Author information: (1)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, School of Medicine and PublicHealth, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin; Carbone CancerCenter, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin. Electronic address: kesbona@wisc.edu.(2)Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin;Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, School of Medicine andPublic Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.(3)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, School of Medicine andPublic Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.(4)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, School of Medicine and PublicHealth, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.(5)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, School of Medicine and PublicHealth, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin; Carbone CancerCenter, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.(6)Department of Information Technology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,Madison, Wisconsin.(7)Carbone Cancer Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.(8)Carbone Cancer Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin;Laboratory for Optical and Computational Instrumentation, University ofWisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.(9)Carbone Cancer Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin;Department of Surgery, School of Medicine and Public Health, University ofWisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin.Inflammation, and the organization of collagen in the breast tumormicroenvironment, is an important mediator of breast tumor progression. However, a direct link between markers of inflammation, collagen organization, and patientoutcome has yet to be established. A tumor microarray of 371 invasive breastcarcinoma biopsy specimens was analyzed for expression of inflammatory markers,including cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), macrophages, and several collagen features inthe tumor nest (TN) or the tumor-associated stroma (TS). The tumor microarraycohort included females, aged 18 to 80 years, with a median follow-up of 8.4years. High expression of COX-2 (TN), CD68 (TS), and CD163 (TN and TS) predicted worse patient overall survival (OS). This notion was strengthened by the finding from the multivariate analysis that high numbers of CD163+ macrophages in the TS is an independent prognostic factor. Overall collagen deposition was associatedwith high stromal expression of COX-2 and CD163; however, total collagendeposition was not a predictor for OS. Conversely, local collagen density,alignment and perpendicular alignment to the tumor boundary (tumor-associatedcollagen signature-3) were predictors of OS. These results suggest that ininvasive carcinoma, the localization of inflammatory cells and aligned collagenorientation predict poor patient survival. Additional clinical studies may helpvalidate whether therapy with selective COX-2 inhibitors alters expression ofCD68 and CD163 inflammatory markers.Copyright © 2018 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2017.10.025 PMCID: PMC5963475 [Available on 2019-03-01]PMID: 29429545 