69. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2018 Feb 8;19(2):9. doi: 10.1007/s11864-018-0528-y.Second Malignancies after Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation.Danylesko I(1)(2), Shimoni A(3)(4).Author information: (1)The Division of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Chaim ShebaMedical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.(2)Sacker school of medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.(3)The Division of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Chaim ShebaMedical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel. ashimoni@sheba.health.gov.il.(4)Sacker school of medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Tel-Aviv, Israel.ashimoni@sheba.health.gov.il.OPINION STATEMENT: Second malignancies are a rare but well-defined latecomplication after autologous and allogeneic hematopoietic stem-celltransplantation (SCT). Solid malignancies occur in up to 15% of patients 15 yearsafter SCT with myeloablative conditioning, with no plateau in the incidencerates. They are responsible for 5-10% of late deaths after SCT. The incidence is increased with advanced age at SCT. The major risk factors are the use of totalbody irradiation, which is associated with adenocarcinomas and with chronicgraft-versus-host disease which is associated with squamous cell cancers. Thereis less data on the incidence of second malignancies after reduced-intensityconditioning, but it may not be lower. The types of solid tumors reported inexcess include melanoma and other skin cancers; cancers of the oral cavity andhead and neck, brain, liver, uterine cervix, thyroid, breast, lung; and possibly gastrointestinal cancers. Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MN) are morecommon after autologous SCT and may be related mostly to pre-transplanttherapies. Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease is donor-cell-derivedlymphoma that is more common after allogeneic SCT with T-cell depletion orintensive immune-suppression state. Second malignancies are most often treatedsimilarly to the standard therapy for similar malignancies. Lifelong cancerscreening and prevention interventions are required for all transplantationsurvivors.DOI: 10.1007/s11864-018-0528-y PMID: 29423555 