115. Cancer Lett. 2018 May 1;421:170-185. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.01.082. Epub 2018Feb 5.Smac mimetic induces an early wave of gene expression via NF-κB and AP-1 and asecond wave via TNFR1 signaling.Schmidt N(1), Haydn T(1), Schneider I(1), Busch H(2), Boerries M(3), Fulda S(4).Author information: (1)Institute for Experimental Cancer Research in Pediatrics, Goethe-University,Frankfurt, Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site Frankfurt,Germany; German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.(2)Institute of Molecular Medicine and Cell Research (IMMZ), AlbertLudwigs-University Freiburg, Germany; Institute of Experimental Dermatology andInstitute of Cardiogenetics, University of Lübeck, Germany.(3)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site Frankfurt, Germany; GermanCancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany; Institute of MolecularMedicine and Cell Research (IMMZ), Albert Ludwigs-University Freiburg, Germany.(4)Institute for Experimental Cancer Research in Pediatrics, Goethe-University,Frankfurt, Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site Frankfurt,Germany; German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany. Electronicaddress: simone.fulda@kgu.de.Smac (second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases) mimetics are considered as promising cancer therapeutics, but little is yet known about how they altergene expression. In this study, we used an unbiased genome-wide expression array to investigate gene regulation induced by the Smac mimetic BV6 in breast cancercell lines. Here, we discover that tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α/TNF receptor 1(TNFR1) auto-/paracrine signaling regulates Smac mimetic-stimulated changes ingene expression in a time-dependent manner. TNFR1-independent and -dependentgenes account for two subsequent waves of BV6-induced gene expression. While the first wave mostly comprises TNFR1-independent genes and involves nuclearfactor-kappa B (NF-κB) and activator protein (AP)-1 transcription factors, thesecond wave largely depends on TNFR1 signaling. Interestingly, disruptingauto-/paracrine TNFα/TNFR1 signaling by knockdown of TNFR1 strongly attenuatesthe BV6-induced second wave of gene expression and upregulation of many pathways,including NF-κB, apoptosis and immune signaling, while activation ofmitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling occurs also in TNFR1 knockdown cells. Thus, BV6 alters gene expression in a time- as well as TNFR1-dependentmanner.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.01.082 PMID: 29421152 