65. Cancer Causes Control. 2018 Mar;29(3):315-324. doi: 10.1007/s10552-018-1005-4.Epub 2018 Feb 8.Non-communicable chronic diseases and timely breast cancer screening among women of the Eastern Caribbean Health Outcomes Research Network (ECHORN) Cohort Study.Wang KH(1), Thompson TA(2), Galusha D(2), Friedman H(2), Nazario CM(3), NunezM(4), Maharaj RG(5), Adams OP(6), Nunez-Smith M(2); ECHORN Writing Group.Author information: (1)Equity Research and Innovation Center, Yale University School of Medicine, NewHaven, USA. karen.wang@yale.edu.(2)Equity Research and Innovation Center, Yale University School of Medicine, NewHaven, USA.(3)School of Public Health, University of Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico.(4)School of Nursing, University of the Virgin Islands, Saint Thomas, US VirginIslands.(5)Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of the West Indies at St. Augustine,Saint Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago.(6)Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of the West Indies at Cave Hill, Cave Hill, Barbados.PURPOSE: The Caribbean population faces a growing burden of multiplenon-communicable chronic diseases (NCDs). Breast cancer is the leading cause ofcancer death for women in the Caribbean. Given the substantial burden of NCDsacross the region, cancer prevention and control strategies may need to bespecifically tailored for people with multiple co-morbidities. Preventivescreening, such as timely mammography, is essential but may be either facilitatedor hampered by chronic disease control. The main objective of this study is toexamine the relationship between a chronic disease and timely breast cancerscreening.METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional data analysis using baseline data fromthe Eastern Caribbean Health Outcomes Research Network (ECHORN) Cohort Study-ECS.Our independent variables were presence of chronic diseases (hypertension ordiabetes), defined as having been told by a clinical provider. Our dependentvariable was timely screening mammography, as defined by receipt of mammographywithin the past 2 years. We examined bivariate and multivariate associations ofcovariates and timely screening mammography.RESULTS: In our sample (n = 841), 52% reported timely screening mammography.Among those with timely screening, 50.8% reported having hypertension, and 22.3% reported having diabetes. In our bivariate analyses, both diabetes andhypertension were associated with timely screening mammography. In partiallyadjusted models, we found that women with diabetes were significantly more likelyto report timely screening mammography than women without diabetes. In our fully adjusted models, the association was no longer significant. Having a usual sourceof healthcare and a woman's island of residence were significantly associatedwith timely screening mammography (p < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: We found that half of eligible women received timely screeningmammography. Diabetes and hypertension, though common, are not associated withtimely screening mammography. Usual source of care remains an important factor totimely breast cancer screening.DOI: 10.1007/s10552-018-1005-4 PMID: 29423760 