157. Psychooncology. 2018 Apr;27(4):1270-1276. doi: 10.1002/pon.4666. Epub 2018 Mar 8.Factors associated with romantic relationship formation difficulties in womenwith breast cancer.Shaw LK(1), Sherman KA(1)(2), Fitness J(3), Elder E(2); Breast Cancer NetworkAustralia.Author information: (1)Centre for Emotional Health, Department of Psychology, Macquarie University,Sydney, Australia.(2)Westmead Breast Cancer Institute, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.(3)Department of Psychology, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.OBJECTIVE: Many un-partnered women report difficulty in forming romanticrelationships after breast cancer, characterized by high dating-related anxietyand low perceived interpersonal competence. This study examined the relationship between poor body image (appearance investment and body dissatisfaction) andself-compassion, and women's ability to form romantic relationships post-breastcancer.METHODS: Women (N = 152) diagnosed with breast cancer, who were eitherun-partnered and expressed interest in romantic dating, or who had commenced arelationship post-diagnosis, completed an online survey. Assessments included theInterpersonal Competence Questionnaire, Dating Anxiety Scale, Self-compassionScale, Appearance Schemas Inventory-Revised, Body Image Scale, and Experiences inClose Relationships Scale. Multiple regression analyses assessed therelationships between these variables.RESULTS: Partnered and un-partnered women differed in levels of dating anxiety,interpersonal competence, anxious attachment, and the self-evaluative saliencefacet of appearance investment. Analyses revealed a significant model for dating anxiety, with high self-evaluative salience, body image dissatisfaction, andattachment avoidance independently associated with this outcome. The model forinterpersonal competence was also significant, with low attachment avoidance and high self-compassion independently associated with this outcome.CONCLUSIONS: Un-partnered women who place high importance on appearance for theirself-worth and who report poor body image and low self-compassion are at risk of experiencing difficulties in forming new romantic relationships after breastcancer. Future interventions should target these variables to facilitate romanticdating during cancer survivorship.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4666 PMID: 29430771 