177. Endocr Rev. 2018 Feb 9. doi: 10.1210/er.2017-00212. [Epub ahead of print]Klinefelter syndrome - integrating genetics, neuropsychology and endocrinology.Gravholt CH(1)(2), Chang S(1)(3), Wallentin M(4)(5), Fedder J(6), Moore P(7),Skakkebæk A(2)(8).Author information: (1)Department of Endocrinology and Internal Medicine (MEA), Aarhus UniversityHospital, Aarhus, Denmark.(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Esbjerg Sygehus, Denmark.(4)Department of Linguistics, Cognitive Science and Semiotics, Aarhus University,Aarhus, Denmark.(5)Center of Functionally Integrative Neuroscience, Aarhus University Hospital,Aarhus, Denmark.(6)Centre of Andrology and Fertility Clinic, Department of Gynaecology andObstetrics, Odense University Hopsital, Odense, Denmark.(7)Department of Psychology, The George Washington University, Washington DC,USA.(8)Department of Clinical Genetics, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.Although first identified over 70 years ago, Klinefelter syndrome (KS) continueto pose significant diagnostic challenges, as many patients are stillmisdiagnosed, or remain undiagnosed. In fact, as few as 25% of KS patients areaccurately diagnosed, and most of these diagnoses are not made until adulthood.Classic characteristics of KS include small testes, infertility,hypergonadothropic hypogonadism, and cognitive impairment. However, thepathophysiology behind KS is not well understood, although genetic effects arealso thought to play a role. For example, recent developments in genetics andgenomics point to a fundamental change in our understanding of KS, with globalepigenetic and RNA expression changes playing a central role for the phenotype.KSis also associated with more general health markers, including higher morbidityand mortality rates, and lower socio-economic status (which likely affects bothmorbidity and mortality). In addition, hypogonadism is associated with greaterrisk of of metabolic syndrome, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, breastcancer, and extragonadal germ cell tumors. Medical treatment typically focuses ontestosterone replacement therapy (TRT), although the effects of this therapy has not been studied rigorously, and future studies need to evaluate the effects ofTRT on metabolic risk and neurocognitive outcomes.This review presents acomprehensive, interdisciplinary examination of recent developments in genetic,endocrine and neurocognitive science, including the study of animal modelsregarding KS. It also provides a number of recommendations for improving theeffectiveness of research and clinical practice, including neonatal KS screening programs, and a multidisciplinary approach to KS treatment from childhood untilsenescence.Copyright © 2018 Endocrine Society.DOI: 10.1210/er.2017-00212 PMID: 29438472 