171. J Pharmacol Toxicol Methods. 2018 Jul - Aug;92:13-19. doi:10.1016/j.vascn.2018.02.005. Epub 2018 Feb 10.An automated epifluorescence microscopy imaging assay for the identification ofphospho-AKT level modulators in breast cancer cells.Kaemmerer E(1), Turner D(2), Peters AA(3), Roberts-Thomson SJ(4), Monteith GR(5).Author information: (1)The School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia; Mater Research Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,Queensland, Australia; Translational Research Institute, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia. Electronic address: e.kaemmerer@griffith.edu.au.(2)The School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia. Electronic address: dane.turner@uqconnect.edu.au.(3)The School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia; Mater Research Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,Queensland, Australia; Translational Research Institute, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia. Electronic address: a.peters1@uq.edu.au.(4)The School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia. Electronic address: sarahrt@uq.edu.au.(5)The School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia; Mater Research Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,Queensland, Australia; Translational Research Institute, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia. Electronic address: gregm@uq.edu.au.AKT is an enzyme of the PI3K/pAKT pathway, regulating proliferation and cellsurvival. High basal levels of active, phosphorylated AKT (pAKT) are associatedwith tumor progression and therapeutic resistance in some breast cancer subtypes,including HER2 positive breast cancers. Various stimuli can increase pAKT levels and elevated basal pAKT levels are a feature of PTEN-deficient breast cancer celllines. The aim of this study was to develop an assay able to identify modulators of pAKT levels using an automated epifluorescence microscope and high contentanalysis. To develop this assay, we used HCC-1569, a PTEN-deficient,HER2-overexpressing breast cancer cell line with elevated basal pAKT levels.HCC-1569 cells were treated with a selective pharmacological inhibitor of AKT(MK-2206) to reduce basal pAKT levels or EGF to increase pAKT levels.Immunofluorescence images were acquired using an automated epifluorescencemicroscope and integrated intensity of cytoplasmic pAKT staining was calculatedusing high content analysis software. Mean and median integrated cytoplasmicintensity were normalized using fold change and standard score to assess assayquality and to identify most robust data analysis. The highest z' factor wasachieved for median data normalization using the standard score method(z' = 0.45). Using our developed assay we identified the calcium homeostasisregulating proteins TPRV6, STIM1 and TRPC1 as modulators of pAKT levels inHCC-1569 cells. Calcium signaling controls a diverse array of cellular processes and some calcium homeostasis regulating proteins are involved in modulating pAKT levels in cancer cells. Thus, these identified hits present promising targets forfurther assessment.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.vascn.2018.02.005 PMID: 29438745 