118. Curr Probl Cancer. 2018 Mar - Apr;42(2):208-214. doi:10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2018.01.004. Epub 2018 Jan 8.Adipocytokines and breast cancer.Li J(1), Han X(2).Author information: (1)Institute of Chinese Traditional Surgery, Longhua Hospital Affiliated toShanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China.(2)Institute of Chinese Traditional Surgery, Longhua Hospital Affiliated toShanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: hanxianghui1106@163.com.A substantial number of studies have revealed that a growing list of cancersmight be influenced by obesity. In this regard, one of the most prominent andwell-characterized cancers is breast cancer, the leading cause of cancer deathamong women. Obesity is associated with an increased risk for the occurrence and development of breast cancer particular in postmenopausal women. Moreover, therelationship between adiposity and breast cancer risk is complex, withassociations that differ depending on when body size is assessed (eg,premenopausal vs postmenopausal obesity) and when breast cancer is diagnosed (ie,premenopausal vs postmenopausal disease). Obesity is mainly due to excessive fat accumulation in the regional tissue. Adipocytes in obese individuals produceendocrine, inflammatory, and angiogenic factors to affect adjacent breast cancer cells. Adipocytokines, are biologically active polypeptides that are producedeither exclusively or substantially by adipocytes, play a critical and complexrole, and act by endocrine, paracrine, and autocrine pathways in the malignantprogression of breast cancer. Furthermore, the increased levels of leptin,resistin, and decreased adiponectin secretion are directly associated with breastcancer development. And there are also many studies indicating thatadipocytokines could mediate the survival, growth, invasion, and metastasis ofbreast cancer cells by different cellular and molecular mechanisms to reduce the survival time and prompt the malignancy. In present review, we discuss thecorrelations between several adipocytokines and breast cancer cells in obesity aswell as the underlying signaling pathways to provide the novel ideas for theprevention and treatment of breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2018.01.004 PMID: 29433827 