9. Int J Oncol. 2018 Apr;52(4):1339-1349. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2018.4271. Epub 2018 Feb 9.Arctigenin inhibits the activation of the mTOR pathway, resulting in autophagiccell death and decreased ER expression in ER-positive human breast cancer cells.Maxwell T(1), Lee KS(1), Kim S(1), Nam KS(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine and Intractable DiseaseResearch Center, Dongguk University, Gyeongju 38066, Republic of Korea.Arctigenin, a member of the Asteraceae family, is a biologically active lignanthat is consumed worldwide due to its several health benefits. However, its usemay pose a problem for patients with estrogen receptor (ER)α-positive breastcancer, since studies have shown that arctigenin is a phytoestrogen that exerts aproliferative effect by binding to the ER. Thus, in this study, we examined theeffect of arctigenin on ERα-positive MCF-7 human breast cancer cells to determinewhether the consumption of arctigenin is safe for patients with breast cancer.First, we found that arctigenin inhibited the viability of the MCF-7 cells, andcolony formation assay confirmed that this effect was cytotoxic rather thancytostatic. The cytotoxic effects were not mediated by cell cycle arrest,apoptosis, or necroptosis, despite DNA damage, as indicated by poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) cleavage and phosphorylated H2A.X. An increase in lipidatedLC3, a marker of autophagosome formation, was observed, indicating that autophagywas induced by arctigenin, which was found to be triggered by the inhibition ofthe mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway. We then examined the effects of arctigenin on ERα expression and determined whether it affects the sensitivityof the cells to tamoxifen, as tamoxifen is commonly used againsthormone-responsive cancers and is known to act via the ERα. We found thattreatment with arctigenin effectively downregulated ERα expression, which wasfound to be a consequence of the inhibition of the mTOR pathway. However,treatment with arctigenin in combination with tamoxifen did not affect thesensitivity of the cells to tamoxifen, but instead, exerted a synergistic effect.On the whole, our data indicate that the phytoestrogen, arctigenin, mainlytargeted the mTOR pathway in ERα-positive MCF-7 human breast cancer cells,leading to autophagy-induced cell death and the downregulation of ERα expression.Furthermore, the synergistic effects between arctigenin and tamoxifen suggestthat the consumption of arctigenin is not only safe for patients withhormone-sensitive cancers, but may also be an effective co-treatment.DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2018.4271 PMID: 29436614 