154. J Pathol. 2018 May;245(1):53-60. doi: 10.1002/path.5055. Epub 2018 Mar 30.Molecular analysis of PALB2-associated breast cancers.Lee JEA(1), Li N(1)(2)(3), Rowley SM(1), Cheasley D(1)(3), Zethoven M(4),McInerny S(5), Gorringe KL(3)(6)(7), James PA(3)(5), Campbell IG(1)(3)(7).Author information: (1)Cancer Genetics Laboratory, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne,Victoria, Australia.(2)Cancer Biology Medical Center, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, PR China.(3)Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne,Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.(4)Bioinformatics Consulting Core, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne,Victoria, Australia.(5)Parkville Familial Cancer Centre, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre and RoyalMelbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.(6)Cancer Genomics Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Victoria,Australia.(7)Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria,Australia.PALB2 is established as the most clinically important moderate to high penetrancebreast cancer predisposition gene after BRCA1 and BRCA2. Mutations in classicalfamilial cancer predisposition genes are presumed to be recessive at the cellularlevel and therefore a second inactivating somatic mutation is required in thetumour tissue. However, from the limited data that exist, PALB2 may be an exampleof a cancer predisposition gene that does not conform to Knudson's 'two hit'paradigm. We conducted genome-wide copy number analysis and targeted sequencingof PALB2 and other breast cancer driver genes in 15 invasive breast cancers from individuals carrying pathogenic germline mutations in PALB2. The majority ofcancers showed clear evidence of bi-allelic inactivation of PALB2 (10/15) either as loss of heterozygosity involving the wild-type allele (six tumours) or assomatic point mutations (four tumours). All PALB2-null cancers had highhomologous recombination deficiency (HRD) scores consistent with a homologousrecombination repair deficiency. Interestingly, all but one of the PALB2heterozygous cancers also had high HRD scores, suggesting that alternativemechanisms of PALB2 functional loss might be operating in these cancers. Ourfindings demonstrate that PALB2 does undergo bi-allelic inactivation in themajority of breast cancers from PALB2 germline mutation carriers. This featurehas implications for the discovery of new moderate to high penetrance breastcancer predisposition genes as it supports using the existence of a 'second hit' and mutation signatures as important search criteria. Copyright © 2018Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley &Sons, Ltd.Copyright © 2018 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/path.5055 PMID: 29431189 