129. BMC Cancer. 2018 Feb 12;18(1):174. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4021-6.Exome sequencing of primary breast cancers with paired metastatic lesions revealsmetastasis-enriched mutations in the A-kinase anchoring protein family (AKAPs).Kjällquist U(1)(2), Erlandsson R(3), Tobin NP(4), Alkodsi A(5), Ullah I(4),Stålhammar G(4), Karlsson E(4), Hatschek T(4), Hartman J(4), Linnarsson S(3),Bergh J(4).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Cancer Center Karolinska, KarolinskaInstitute and University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. una.kjallquist@ki.se.(2)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden. una.kjallquist@ki.se.(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden.(4)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Cancer Center Karolinska, KarolinskaInstitute and University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.(5)Research Programs Unit, Genome-Scale Biology and Medicum, University ofHelsinki, Helsinki, Finland.BACKGROUND: Tumor heterogeneity in breast cancer tumors is today widelyrecognized. Most of the available knowledge in genetic variation however, relatesto the primary tumor while metastatic lesions are much less studied. Many studieshave revealed marked alterations of standard prognostic and predictive factorsduring tumor progression. Characterization of paired primary- and metastatictissues should therefore be fundamental in order to understand mechanisms oftumor progression, clonal relationship to tumor evolution as well as thetherapeutic aspects of systemic disease.METHODS: We performed full exome sequencing of primary breast cancers and theirmetastases in a cohort of ten patients and further confirmed our findings in anadditional cohort of 20 patients with paired primary and metastatic tumors.Furthermore, we used gene expression from the metastatic lesions and a primarybreast cancer data set to study the gene expression of the AKAP gene family.RESULTS: We report that somatic mutations in A-kinase anchoring proteins areenriched in metastatic lesions. The frequency of mutation in the AKAP gene familywas 10% in the primary tumors and 40% in metastatic lesions. Several copy number variations, including deletions in regions containing AKAP genes were detectedand showed consistent patterns in both investigated cohorts. In a second cohortcontaining 20 patients with paired primary and metastatic lesions, AKAP mutationsshowed an increasing variant allele frequency after multiple relapses.Furthermore, gene expression profiles from the metastatic lesions (n = 120)revealed differential expression patterns of AKAPs relative to the tumor PAM50intrinsic subtype, which were most apparent in the basal-like subtype. Thispattern was confirmed in primary tumors from TCGA (n = 522) and in a thirdindependent cohort (n = 182).CONCLUSION: Several studies from primary cancers have reported individual AKAPgenes to be associated with cancer risk and metastatic relapses as well as directinvolvement in cellular invasion and migration processes. Our findings reveal an enrichment of mutations in AKAP genes in metastatic breast cancers and suggestthe involvement of AKAPs in the metastatic process. In addition, we report anAKAP gene expression pattern that consistently follows the tumor intrinsicsubtype, further suggesting AKAP family members as relevant players in breastcancer biology.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4021-6 PMCID: PMC5810006PMID: 29433456 