156. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2018 Jun;59(3):471-482. doi:10.23736/S0021-9509.18.09847-6. Epub 2018 Feb 8.Models to predict length of stay in the Intensive Care Unit after coronary arterybypass grafting: a systematic review.Atashi A(1)(2), Verburg IW(3), Karim H(4), Miri M(5), Abu-Hanna A(3), de JongeE(6), de Keizer NF(3), Eslami S(7)(8)(9).Author information: (1)E-health Department, Virtual School, Tehran University of Medical Sciences,Tehran, Iran.(2)Department of Medical Informatics, Breast Cancer Research Center, MotamedCancer Institute, ACECR, Tehran, Iran.(3)Academic Medical Center, Department of Medical Informatics, Amsterdam PublicHealth Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(4)Department of Health Information Management, Faculty of Allied MedicalSciences, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(5)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Emam Hossein Hospital, Shahid Beheshti Medical University, Tehran, Iran.(6)Department of Intensive Care, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, TheNetherlands.(7)Academic Medical Center, Department of Medical Informatics, Amsterdam PublicHealth Research Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands - eslamis@mums.ac.ir.(8)Pharmaceutical Research Center, School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University ofMedical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(9)Department of Medical Informatics, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.INTRODUCTION: Intensive Care Units (ICU) length of stay (LoS) prediction modelsare used to compare different institutions and surgeons on their performance, andis useful as an efficiency indicator for quality control. There is littleconsensus about which prediction methods are most suitable to predict (ICU)length of stay. The aim of this study is to systematically review models forpredicting ICU LoS after coronary artery bypass grafting and to assess thereporting and methodological quality of these models to apply them forbenchmarking.EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A general search was conducted in Medline and Embase up to 31-12-2016. Three authors classified the papers for inclusion by reading theirtitle, abstract and full text. All original papers describing development and/or validation of a prediction model for LoS in the ICU after CABG surgery wereincluded. We used a checklist developed for critical appraisal and dataextraction for systematic reviews of prediction modeling and extended it onhandling specific patients subgroups. We also defined other items and scores toassess the methodological and reporting quality of the models.EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Of 5181 uniquely identified articles, fifteen studies wereincluded of which twelve on development of new models and three on validation of existing models. All studies used linear or logistic regression as method formodel development, and reported various performance measures based on thedifference between predicted and observed ICU LoS. Most used a prospective(46.6%) or retrospective study design (40%). We found heterogeneity in patientinclusion/exclusion criteria; sample size; reported accuracy rates; and methodsof candidate predictor selection. Most (60%) studies have not mentioned thehandling of missing values and none compared the model outcome measure ofsurvivors with non-survivors. For model development and validation studiesrespectively, the maximum reporting (methodological) scores were 66/78 and 62/62 (14/22 and 12/22).CONCLUSIONS: There are relatively few models for predicting ICU length of stayafter CABG. Several aspects of methodological and reporting quality of studies inthis field should be improved. There is a need for standardizing outcome and riskfactor definitions in order to develop/validate a multi-institutional andinternational risk scoring system.DOI: 10.23736/S0021-9509.18.09847-6 PMID: 29430883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]