158. Genet Epidemiol. 2018 Jul;42(5):434-446. doi: 10.1002/gepi.22115. Epub 2018 Feb11.A meta-analysis approach with filtering for identifying gene-levelgene-environment interactions.Wang J(1)(2), Liu Q(3), Pierce BL(1)(4), Huo D(1)(5), Olopade OI(4)(5)(6), Ahsan H(1)(4)(5), Chen LS(1).Author information: (1)Department of Public Health Sciences, The University of Chicago, Chicago,Illinois, United States of America.(2)Department of Statistics and Data Science, Carnegie Mellon University,Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.(3)Sanofi, Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States of America.(4)Department of Human Genetics, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois,United States of America.(5)Department of Medicine, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, UnitedStates of America.(6)Center for Clinical Cancer Genetics and Global Health, The University ofChicago Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.There is a growing recognition that gene-environment interaction (G × E) plays a pivotal role in the development and progression of complex diseases. Despite awealth of genetic data on various complex diseases/traits generated fromassociation and sequencing studies, detecting G × E via genome-wide analysisremains challenging due to power issues. In genome-wide G × E studies, a commonstrategy to improve power is to first conduct a filtering test and retain onlythe genetic variants that pass the filtering step for subsequent G × E analyses. Two-stage, multistage, and unified tests have been proposed to jointly considerthe filtering statistics in G × E tests. However, such G × E tests based on data from a single study may still be underpowered. Meanwhile, large-scale consortiahave been formed to borrow strength across studies and populations. In this work,motivated by existing single-study G × E tests with filtering and the needs formeta-analysis G × E approaches based on consortia data, we propose ameta-analysis framework for detecting gene-based G × E effects, and introducemeta-analysis-based filtering statistics in the gene-level G × E tests.Simulations demonstrate the advantages of the proposed method-the ofGEM test. We apply the proposed tests to existing data from two breast cancer consortia toidentify the genes harboring genetic variants with age-dependent penetrance(i.e., gene-age interaction effects). We develop an R software package ofGEM for the proposed meta-analysis tests.© 2018 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.DOI: 10.1002/gepi.22115 PMCID: PMC6013347PMID: 29430690 