4. Oncol Rep. 2018 Apr;39(4):1711-1724. doi: 10.3892/or.2018.6256. Epub 2018 Feb 9.Anti-angiogenic and pro-apoptotic effects of a small-molecule JFD-WS in in vitro and breast cancer xenograft mouse models.Rathinavelu A(1), Kanagasabai T(1), Dhandayuthapani S(1), Alhazzani K(1).Author information: (1)Rumbaugh-Goodwin Institute for Cancer Research, College of Pharmacy, HealthProfessions Division, Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33328,USA.A small molecule that was developed for blocking vascular endothelial growthfactor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) has been tested and confirmed for its anti-angiogenic activity. Subsequently, it was modified into a water soluble salt form (JFD-WS)to increase bioavailability and distribution during in vivo pre-clinical testing.The present study was designed to further evaluate the anti-angiogenic andpro-apoptotic effects of JFD-WS in monotherapy as well as in combination withpaclitaxel (Taxol) using a mouse xenograft model. The in vitro anti-angiogeniceffects of JFD-WS were investigated using cell proliferation, migration, Matrigeltube formation and VEGFR2 phosphorylation assays. The anti-angiogenic effect ofJFD-WS was further established using chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assayfollowed by in vivo efficacy testing on GI-101A breast adenocarcinoma cells.Pharmacokinetic and toxicity studies were performed using BALB/c mice. Finally,the apoptotic signals were assessed in the control and experimental tumorsamples, and the plasma mucin 1 (MUC1) levels were analyzed. In the in vitrotests, JFD-WS effectively inhibited HUVEC proliferation, migration, tubeformation and VEGFR2 phosphorylation. Additionally, JFD-WS inhibited theformation of blood vessels in chick chorioallantoic membrane. While inhibitingthe xenograft tumor growth in experimental mice, JFD-WS decreased the plasma MUC1levels. The western blot analysis of apoptotic markers and fragmentation analysisof DNA confirmed the pro-apoptotic effects of JFD-WS. These results indicatedthat JFD-WS alone or in combination with paclitaxel exerted antitumor andpro-apoptotic effects in the breast cancer xenograft model due to ananti-angiogenic effect. These results strongly support the clinical translationof its use.DOI: 10.3892/or.2018.6256 PMID: 29436685 