21. J Appl Clin Med Phys. 2018 Mar;19(2):218-229. doi: 10.1002/acm2.12283. Epub 2018 Feb 13.Feasibility study of individualized optimal positioning selection for left-sided whole breast radiotherapy: DIBH or prone.Lin H(1), Liu T(1), Shi C(2), Petillion S(3), Kindts I(3), Weltens C(3), Depuydt T(3), Song Y(2), Saleh Z(2), Xu XG(1), Tang X(2).Author information: (1)Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,Troy, USA.(2)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, NewYork, USA.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospitals of Leuven, Leuven,Belgium.The deep inspiration breath hold (DIBH) and prone (P) position are two commonheart-sparing techniques for external-beam radiation treatment of left-sidedbreast cancer patients. Clinicians select the position that is deemed to bebetter for tissue sparing based on their experience. This approach, however, isnot always optimum and consistent. In response to this, we develop a quantitativetool that predicts the optimal positioning for the sake of organs at risk (OAR)sparing. Sixteen left-sided breast cancer patients were considered in the study, each received CT scans in the supine free breathing, supine DIBH, and pronepositions. Treatment plans were generated for all positions. A patient wasclassified as DIBH or P using two different criteria: if that position yielded(1) lower heart dose, or (2) lower weighted OAR dose. Ten anatomical featureswere extracted from each patient's data, followed by the principal componentanalysis. Sequential forward feature selection was implemented to identifyfeatures that give the best classification performance. Nine statistical modelswere then applied to predict the optimal positioning and were evaluated usingstratified k-fold cross-validation, predictive accuracy and receiver operatingcharacteristic (AUROC). For heart toxicity-based classification, the supportvector machine with radial basis function kernel yielded the highest accuracy(0.88) and AUROC (0.80). For OAR overall toxicities-based classification, thequadratic discriminant analysis achieved the highest accuracy (0.90) and AUROC(0.84). For heart toxicity-based classification, Breast volume and the distancebetween Heart and Breast were the most frequently selected features. For OARoverall toxicities-based classification, Heart volume, Breast volume and thedistance between ipsilateral lung and breast were frequently selected. Given the patient data considered in this study, the proposed statistical model is feasibleto provide predictions for DIBH and prone position selection as well as indicate important clinical features that affect the position selection.© 2018 Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Journal of Applied ClinicalMedical Physics published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of AmericanAssociation of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/acm2.12283 PMCID: PMC5849849PMID: 29436168 