Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST None.49. Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 28;9(4):4282-4300. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.21378.eCollection 2018 Jan 12.Progesterone receptor isoforms, agonists and antagonists differentially reprogramestrogen signaling.Singhal H(1), Greene ME(2), Zarnke AL(2), Laine M(2), Al Abosy R(2), Chang YF(2),Dembo AG(2), Schoenfelt K(2), Vadhi R(3), Qiu X(3), Rao P(3), Santhamma B(4),Nair HB(4), Nickisch KJ(4), Long HW(3), Becker L(2), Brown M(1)(3), Greene GL(2).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,Massachusetts, USA.(2)Ben May Department for Cancer Research, University of Chicago, Chicago,Illinois, USA.(3)Center for Functional Cancer Epigenetics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(4)Evestra Inc., San Antonio, Texas, USA.Major roadblocks to developing effective progesterone receptor (PR)-targetedtherapies in breast cancer include the lack of highly-specific PR modulators, apoor understanding of the pro- or anti-tumorigenic networks for PR isoforms andligands, and an incomplete understanding of the cross talk between PR andestrogen receptor (ER) signaling. Through genomic analyses of xenografts treated with various clinically-relevant ER and PR-targeting drugs, we describe how theactivation or inhibition of PR differentially reprograms estrogen signaling,resulting in the segregation of transcriptomes into separate PR agonist andantagonist-mediated groups. These findings address an ongoing controversyregarding the clinical utility of PR agonists and antagonists, alone or incombination with tamoxifen, for breast cancer management. Additionally, the twoPR isoforms PRA and PRB, bind distinct but overlapping genomic sites and interactwith different sets of co-regulators to differentially modulate estrogensignaling to be either pro- or anti-tumorigenic. Of the two isoforms, PRAinhibited gene expression and ER chromatin binding significantly more than PRB.Differential gene expression was observed in PRA and PRB-rich patient tumors and PRA-rich gene signatures had poorer survival outcomes. In support ofantiprogestin responsiveness of PRA-rich tumors, gene signatures associated with PR antagonists, but not PR agonists, predicted better survival outcomes. Thebetter patient survival associated with PR antagonists versus PR agoniststreatments was further reflected in the higher in vivo anti-tumor activity oftherapies that combine tamoxifen with PR antagonists and modulators. This studysuggests that distinguishing common effects observed due to concomitantinteraction of another receptor with its ligand (agonist or antagonist), fromunique isoform and ligand-specific effects will inform the development ofbiomarkers for patient selection and translation of PR-targeted therapies to the clinic.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.21378 PMCID: PMC5796974PMID: 29435103 