155. Clin Radiol. 2018 Apr;73(4):396-409. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2018.01.003. Epub 2018Feb 10.Evolving imaging techniques for staging axillary lymph nodes in breast cancer.Lowes S(1), Leaver A(1), Cox K(2), Satchithananda K(3), Cosgrove D(4), Lim A(5).Author information: (1)Breast Screening and Assessment Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Gateshead, UK.(2)Department of Surgery, Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust, Kent, UK.(3)Breast Screening and Imaging Department, King's College Hospital, DenmarkHill, London, UK.(4)Imaging Department, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital Campus, DuCane Road, London W12 0HS, UK.(5)Breast Unit and Imaging Department, Imperial College London, Charing CrossHospital Campus, Fulham Palace Road, London W6 8RF, UK. Electronic address:a.lim@imperial.ac.uk.The presence and extent of axillary nodal metastases at the time of breast cancerdiagnosis is a critical factor in disease prognosis and plays a central role indeciding the best treatment for patients. Accurate assessment of the axilla istherefore an essential component in staging breast cancer. Over the years,axillary staging has evolved from surgical axillary lymph node dissection (ALND),with its numerous associated long-term complications, to the much less-radicalsurgical sentinel lymph node excision biopsy (SLNB), the current referencestandard. In parallel, radiological staging of the axilla has become increasinglymore useful as our knowledge and techniques have improved. Preoperative axillary ultrasound is used widely to stage patients with breast cancer, providing anevaluation of node morphology and allowing targeted biopsy of abnormal nodes.This is important in helping stratify which patients should proceed directly toALND and which should undergo SLNB first. Grey-scale ultrasound on its own is notperfect and can over- and underestimate axillary disease. Newer ultrasoundtechniques such as elastography may help to improve diagnostic confidence whenvisually assessing axillary nodes; for example, in more accurately assessing the extent of axillary disease burden or in differentiating benign reactive nodesfrom malignant nodes in equivocal cases. The use of intradermal "microbubbles"has shown great promise in being able to locate and biopsy the sentinel lymphnode under ultrasound guidance, and raises the possibility that in the futuresuch techniques may obviate the need for surgical SLNB in select patientpopulations.Copyright © 2018 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd.All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.crad.2018.01.003 PMID: 29439780 