152. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2018 May;142(5):598-605. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2017-0226-OA.Epub 2018 Feb 12.Nipple-Invasive Primary Carcinomas: Clinical, Imaging, and Pathologic Features ofBreast Carcinomas Originating in the Nipple.Sanders MA, Brock JE, Harrison BT, Wieczorek TJ, Hong X, Guidi AJ, Dillon DA, MaxL, Lester SC(1).Author information: (1)From the Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University ofLouisville, Louisville, Kentucky (Dr Sanders); the Department of Pathology,Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts (Drs Brock, Harrison, Dillon,and Lester); the Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Faulkner Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts (Drs Wieczorek and Hong); the Department of Pathology,Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Newton, Massachusetts (Dr Guidi); and FalmouthHospital, Falmouth, Massachusetts (Dr Max).Context Patients choosing to retain the nipple when undergoing therapeutic orprophylactic mastectomy are at risk for cancers arising at that site. ObjectiveTo identify cases of invasive carcinoma arising within the nipple and toinvestigate their clinical, imaging, biologic, and staging features. DesignCarcinomas were identified by prospective review of surgical and consult cases at4 hospitals. Results The 24 patients identified presented with symptoms relatedto the nipple. Mammography did not detect the cancer in most cases. Ten patients (42%) had skin changes from ductal carcinoma in situ involving nipple skin (Pagetdisease), with small foci of invasion into the dermis, and 6 of those 10carcinomas (60%) stained positive for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(HER2). The remaining 14 patients (58%) presented with a nipple mass or with skinchanges. These were larger invasive carcinomas of both ductal and lobular types. Only 2 of those 14 carcinomas (14%) were HER2+. Three of 15 patients (20%)undergoing lymph node biopsy had a single metastasis. No patients have hadrecurrent disease. Conclusions Rare, invasive, primary nipple carcinomastypically present as subtle nipple thickening or an exudative crust on the skin. Imaging studies are often nonrevealing. A variety of histologic and biologictypes of carcinomas occur, similar to cancers arising deeper in the breast.Although the carcinomas invaded into the dermis, some with skin ulceration, thelikelihood of lymph node metastasis was no higher than carcinomas of similarsizes. Patients who choose to preserve their nipple(s) should be aware of thepossibility of breast cancer arising at that site and to bring any observedchanges to the attention of their health care providers.DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2017-0226-OA PMID: 29431468 