178. PLoS One. 2018 Feb 13;13(2):e0192629. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192629.eCollection 2018.Cross detection for odor of metabolic waste between breast and colorectal cancer using canine olfaction.Seo IS(1)(2), Lee HG(3), Koo B(4), Koh CS(1), Park HY(1), Im C(1), Shin HC(1).Author information: (1)College of Medicine, Hallym University, Chuncheon, Korea.(2)Gangwon Provincial Police Agency, Chuncheon, Korea.(3)Department of Physical Education, Hallym University, Chuncheon, Korea.(4)School of Interdisciplinary Bioscience and Bioengineering, POSTECH, Pohang,Korea.Although several studies have been performed to detect cancer using canineolfaction, none have investigated whether canine olfaction trained to thespecific odor of one cancer is able to detect odor related to other unfamiliarcancers. To resolve this issue, we employed breast and colorectal cancer invitro, and investigated whether trained dogs to odor related to metabolic wastefrom breast cancer are able to detect it from colorectal cancer, and vice versa. The culture liquid samples used in the cultivation of cancerous cells (4T1 andCT26) were employed as an experimental group. Two different breeds of dogs weretrained for the different cancer odor each other. The dogs were then tested usinga double-blind method and cross-test to determine whether they could correctlydetect the experimental group, which contains the specific odor for metabolicwaste of familiar or unfamiliar cancer. For two cancers, both dogs regardless of whether training or non-training showed that accuracy was over 90%, andsensitivity and specificity were over 0.9, respectively. Through these results,it was verified that the superior olfactory ability of dogs can discriminate odorfor metabolic waste of cancer cells from it of benign cells, and that thespecific odor for metabolic waste of breast cancer has not significantdifferences to it of colorectal cancer. That is, it testifies that metabolicwaste between breast and colorectal cancer have the common specific odor invitro. Accordingly, a trained dogs for detecting odor for metabolic waste ofbreast cancer can perceive it of colorectal cancer, and vice versa. In order tothe future work, we will plan in vivo experiment for the two cancers and suggest research as to what kind of cancers have the common specific odor. Furthermore,the relationship between breast and colorectal cancer should be investigatedusing other research methods.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192629 PMCID: PMC5811037PMID: 29438432  [Indexed for MEDLINE]