157. J Am Dent Assoc. 2018 Apr;149(4):291-298. doi: 10.1016/j.adaj.2017.10.024. Epub2018 Feb 10.Stomatitis associated with mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition: A review of pathogenesis, prevention, treatment, and clinical implications for oral practice in metastatic breast cancer.Chambers MS, Rugo HS, Litton JK, Meiller TF.BACKGROUND: Patients with metastatic breast cancer may develop oral morbiditiesthat result from therapeutic interventions. Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor-associated stomatitis (mIAS) is a common adverse event (AE), secondary to mTOR inhibitor therapy, that can have a negative impact on treatmentadherence, quality of life, and health care costs. A multidisciplinary teamapproach is important to minimize mIAS and to maximize treatment benefits topatients with breast cancer. In this review, we discuss the pathophysiology,diagnosis, and natural history of mIAS. Current and new management strategies forthe prevention and treatment of mIAS are described in the context of fostering a coordinated team care approach to optimizing patient care.TYPES OF STUDIES REVIEWED: The authors conducted a PubMed search from 2007through 2017 using the terms "stomatitis," "mIAS," "everolimus," "mTOR,""metastatic breast cancer," and "oral care." They selected articles published in peer-reviewed journals that reported controlled trials and evidence-basedguidelines.RESULTS: mIAS can be distinguished from mucositis caused by cytotoxicchemotherapy or radiotherapy on the basis of cause, clinical presentation, andtreatment paradigms. Specific preventive and therapeutic management strategiescan be implemented across the continuum of patient oral health care.PRACTICAL IMPLICATIONS: Oral health care providers are on the frontline of oralhealth care for patients with metastatic breast cancer and are uniquelypositioned to provide patient education, advocate accurate reporting of mIAS, andsupport early identification, monitoring, and prompt intervention to mitigate theseverity and duration of this manageable, potentially dose-limiting AE.Copyright © 2018 American Dental Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. Allrights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.adaj.2017.10.024 PMID: 29439772 