26. Int J Cancer. 2018 Jul 15;143(2):343-354. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31309. Epub 2018 Feb23.Epigenetic dysregulation of key developmental genes in radiation-induced ratmammary carcinomas.Daino K(1), Nishimura M(1), Imaoka T(1)(2)(3), Takabatake M(1)(3), Morioka T(1), Nishimura Y(1), Shimada Y(3)(4), Kakinuma S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Effects Research, National Institute of RadiologicalSciences (NIRS), National Institutes for Quantum and Radiological Science andTechnology (QST), Chiba, Japan.(2)QST Advanced Study Laboratory, QST, Chiba, Japan.(3)Department of Radiological Sciences, Graduate School of Human Health Sciences,Tokyo Metropolitan University, Tokyo, Japan.(4)Executive Director, QST, Chiba, Japan.With the increase in the number of long-term cancer survivors worldwide, there isa growing concern about the risk of secondary cancers induced by radiotherapy.Epigenetic modifications of genes associated with carcinogenesis are attractivetargets for the prevention of cancer owing to their reversible nature. Toidentify genes with possible changes in functionally relevant DNA methylationpatterns in mammary carcinomas induced by radiation exposure, we performedmicroarray-based global DNA methylation and expression profiling in γ-ray-inducedrat mammary carcinomas and normal mammary glands. The gene expression profilingidentified dysregulation of developmentally related genes, including thedownstream targets of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) and overexpression of enhancer of zeste homolog 2, a component of PRC2, in the carcinomas. Byintegrating expression and DNA methylation profiles, we identified tenhypermethylated and three hypomethylated genes that possibly act astumor-suppressor genes and oncogenes dysregulated by aberrant DNA methylation;half of these genes encode developmental transcription factors. Bisulfitesequencing and quantitative PCR confirmed the dysregulation of thepolycomb-regulated developmentally related transcription-factor genes Dmrt2,Hoxa7, Foxb1, Sox17, Lhx8, Gata3 and Runx1. Silencing of Hoxa7 was furtherverified by immunohistochemistry. These results suggest that, inradiation-induced mammary gland carcinomas, PRC2-mediated aberrant DNAmethylation leads to dysregulation of developmentally relatedtranscription-factor genes. Our findings provide clues to molecular mechanismslinking epigenetic regulation and radiation-induced breast carcinogenesis andunderscore the potential of such epigenetic mechanisms as targets for cancerprevention.© 2018 UICC.DOI: 10.1002/ijc.31309 PMID: 29435983 