120. Food Res Int. 2018 Feb;104:59-68. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2017.10.021. Epub 2017Oct 16.Do cancer patients change their diet in the e-health information era? A review ofthe literature and a survey as a proposal for the Italian population.Ghelfi F(1), Tieri M(2), Gori S(3), Nicolis F(4), Petrella MC(5), Filiberti A(6),Apolone G(7), Titta L(8).Author information: (1)Department of Experimental Oncology, European Institute of Oncology, Milano,Italy; University of Parma, Parma, Italy.(2)Department of Experimental Oncology, European Institute of Oncology, Milano,Italy; Fondazione Tera, Novara, Italy. Electronic address: maria.tieri@ieo.it.(3)Medical Oncology, S. Cuore-Don Calabria Hospital, Negrar, Verona, Italy.(4)Medical Administration, S. Cuore-Don Calabria Hospital, Negrar, Verona, Italy;Fondazione AIOM, Milano, Italy.(5)Medical Oncology, Azienda USL Toscana Sud Est, Ospedale della Misericordia,Grosseto, Italy.(6)Clinical Psychology, ASL VCO, Verbania, Italy; Scientific Committee FondazioneTera, Novara, Italy.(7)Scientific Committee Fondazione Tera, Novara, Italy; Scientific Directorate,Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milano, Italy.(8)Department of Experimental Oncology, European Institute of Oncology, Milano,Italy.In recent years, there has been an explosion in the amount of availableinformation on cancer in parallel with an ever-increasing number of cancersurvivors. Cancer patients and long-term survivors are known to be more sensitiveto health-related information and dietary changes could represent a potentialconsequence of this huge availability of messages. In our review about dietarychanges after cancer diagnosis, we found that this topic is particularlyinvestigated among the breast cancer population. The literature examined showthat breast cancer patients modify their eating habits after diagnosis in apercentage that varies between approximately 30% and 60%. The most reportedchanges were an increased consumption of fruit and vegetables, a decrease in the consumption of red meat, fats and sugary foods. Patients who reported changeswere more likely to be younger, with higher educational levels and with a longer period of time since their diagnosis of cancer. It also emerged that cancerpatients are often more likely to use supplements. This topic has not beeninvestigated in cancer patients in Italy, therefore, we propose an approach toexplore it with a structured questionnaire: The "ECHO SURVEY - Eating habitsCHanges in Oncologic patients".Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2017.10.021 PMID: 29433784 