192. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Feb 7. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-1846. [Epub ahead ofprint]T-Cell Exhaustion Signatures Vary with Tumor Type and Are Severe in Glioblastoma.Woroniecka K(1)(2), Chongsathidkiet P(1)(2), Rhodin K(1), Kemeny H(1), DechantC(1), Farber SH(1), Elsamadicy AA(1), Cui X(1), Koyama S(3), Jackson C(4), HansenLJ(5), Johanns TM(6), Sanchez-Perez L(1), Chandramohan V(7), Yu YA(8), BignerDD(7), Giles A(9), Healy P(10), Dranoff G(3), Weinhold KJ(11), Dunn GP(12), FecciPE(13)(2).Author information: (1)Duke Brain Tumor Immunotherapy Program, Department of Neurosurgery, DukeUniversity Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.(2)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NorthCarolina.(3)Department of Medical Oncology and Cancer Vaccine Center, Dana Farber CancerInstitute, Boston, Massachusetts.(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.(5)Department of Pharmacology and Molecular Cancer Biology, Duke University,Durham, North Carolina.(6)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Washington University,St. Louis, Missouri.(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NorthCarolina.(8)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NorthCarolina.(9)Neuro-oncology Division, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.(10)Department of Biostatistics, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.(11)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NorthCarolina.(12)Department of Neurological Surgery, Center for Human Immunology andImmunotherapy Programs, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri.(13)Duke Brain Tumor Immunotherapy Program, Department of Neurosurgery, DukeUniversity Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina. peter.fecci@duke.edu.Purpose: T-cell dysfunction is a hallmark of glioblastoma (GBM). Although anergy and tolerance have been well characterized, T-cell exhaustion remains relatively unexplored. Exhaustion, characterized in part by the upregulation of multipleimmune checkpoints, is a known contributor to failures amid immune checkpointblockade, a strategy that has lacked success thus far in GBM. This study is amongthe first to examine, and credential as bona fide, exhaustion among T cellsinfiltrating human and murine GBM.Experimental Design: Tumor-infiltrating andperipheral blood lymphocytes (TILs and PBLs) were isolated from patients withGBM. Levels of exhaustion-associated inhibitory receptors and poststimulationlevels of the cytokines IFNγ, TNFα, and IL2 were assessed by flow cytometry.T-cell receptor Vβ chain expansion was also assessed in TILs and PBLs. Similaranalysis was extended to TILs isolated from intracranial and subcutaneousimmunocompetent murine models of glioma, breast, lung, and melanomacancers.Results: Our data reveal that GBM elicits a particularly severe T-cellexhaustion signature among infiltrating T cells characterized by: (1) prominentupregulation of multiple immune checkpoints; (2) stereotyped T-celltranscriptional programs matching classical virus-induced exhaustion; and (3)notable T-cell hyporesponsiveness in tumor-specific T cells. Exhaustionsignatures differ predictably with tumor identity, but remain stable acrossmanipulated tumor locations.Discussion: Distinct cancers possess similarlydistinct mechanisms for exhausting T cells. The poor TIL function and severeexhaustion observed in GBM highlight the need to better understand thistumor-imposed mode of T-cell dysfunction in order to formulate effectiveimmunotherapeutic strategies targeting GBM. Clin Cancer Res; 1-12. ©2018 AACR.©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-1846 PMCID: PMC6081269 [Available on 2019-08-07]PMID: 29437767 