117. Biomed J. 2017 Dec;40(6):339-346. doi: 10.1016/j.bj.2017.10.003. Epub 2018 Feb 1.Effect of Enzymatic pre-treatment of microalgae extracts on their anti-tumoractivity.Jabeen A(1), Reeder B(1), Hisaindee S(2), Ashraf S(2), Darmaki NA(3), BattahS(4), Al-Zuhair S(5).Author information: (1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Essex, Colchester, UK.(2)Chemistry Department, UAE University, Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates.(3)Chemical and Petroleum Engineering Department, UAE University, Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates.(4)School of Biological Sciences, University of Essex, Colchester, UK. Electronicaddress: shbatt@essex.ac.uk.(5)Chemical and Petroleum Engineering Department, UAE University, Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates. Electronic address: s.alzuhair@uaeu.ac.ae.BACKGROUND: There is an increasing need to find natural bioactive compounds forpharmaceutical applications, because they have less harmful side effects comparedto their chemical alternatives. Microalgae (MA) have been identified as apromising source for these bioactive compounds, and this work aimed to evaluatethe anti-proliferative effects of semi-purified protein extracted from MA againstseveral tumor cell lines.METHODS: Tested samples comprised MA cell extracts treated with cellulase andlysozyme, prior to extraction. The effect of dialysis, required to removeunnecessary small molecules, was also tested. The anti-cancer efficacies of thedialyzed and undialyzed extracts were determined by measuring cell viabilityafter treating four human cancer cell lines, specifically A549 (human lungcarcinoma), MCF-7 (human breast adenocarcinoma), MDA MB-435 (human melanoma), andLNCap (human prostate cancer cells derived from a metastatic site in the lymphnode). This was compared to the effects of the agents on the human BPH-1 cellline (benign human prostate epithelial cells). The t-test was used tostatistically analyze the results and determine the significance.RESULTS: Against LNCap and A549 cells, the performance of cellulase-treatedextracts was better (with p-values < 0.05, as compared to the control) than that of lysozyme-treated preparations (with p-values mainly > 0.05, as compared to thecontrol); however, they had similar effects against the other two tumor celllines (with p-values mainly < 0.05, as compared to the control). Moreover, based on their effect on BPH-1 cells, extracts from lysozyme-treated MA cells weredetermined to be safer against the benign prostate hyperplasia cells, BPH-1 (withp-values mainly > 0.05, as compared to the control). After dialysis, theperformance of MA extracts from lysozyme-treated cells was enhanced significantly(with p-values dropping to < 0.05, as compared to the control).CONCLUSIONS: The results of this work provide important information and couldprovide the foundation for further research to incorporate MA constituents intopharmaceutical anti-cancer therapeutic formulations.Copyright © 2017 Chang Gung University. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bj.2017.10.003 PMID: 29433837 