159. BMC Public Health. 2018 Feb 13;18(1):241. doi: 10.1186/s12889-018-5109-2.What matters most: protocol for a randomized controlled trial of breast cancersurgery encounter decision aids across socioeconomic strata.Durand MA(1), Yen RW(2), O'Malley AJ(2), Politi MC(3), Dhage S(4), RosenkranzK(5), Weichman K(6), Margenthaler J(7), Tosteson ANA(8), Crayton E(3), JacksonS(3), Bradley A(2), Volk RJ(9), Sepucha K(10), Ozanne E(11), Percac-Lima S(12),Song J(2), Acosta J(4), Mir N(7), Elwyn G(2).Author information: (1)The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice, Geisel Schoolof Medicine, Dartmouth College, Lebanon, NH, USA.marie-anne.durand@dartmouth.edu.(2)The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice, Geisel Schoolof Medicine, Dartmouth College, Lebanon, NH, USA.(3)Department of Surgery, Division of Public Health Sciences, WashingtonUniversity School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.(4)Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, New York University School ofMedicine, New York, NY, USA.(5)Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.(6)Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY, USA.(7)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,MO, USA.(8)The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy & Clinical Practice, DartmouthCollege, and Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.(9)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(10)Division of General Internal Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital,Boston, MA, USA.(11)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.(12)Massachusetts General Hospital's Chelsea HealthCare Center, Chelsea, MA, USA.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women.Mastectomy and breast-conserving surgery (BCS) have equivalent survival for earlystage breast cancer. However, each surgery has different benefits and harms that women may value differently. Women of lower socioeconomic status (SES) diagnosed with early stage breast cancer are more likely to experience poorerdoctor-patient communication, lower satisfaction with surgery anddecision-making, and higher decision regret compared to women of higher SES. Theyoften play a more passive role in decision-making and are less likely to undergo BCS. Our aim is to understand how best to support women of lower SES in makingdecisions about early stage breast cancer treatments and to reduce disparities indecision quality across socioeconomic strata.METHODS: We will conduct a three-arm, multi-site randomized controlledsuperiority trial with stratification by SES and clinician-level randomization.At four large cancer centers in the United States, 1100 patients (half higher SESand half lower SES) will be randomized to: (1) Option Grid, (2) Picture OptionGrid, or (3) usual care. Interviews, field-notes, and observations will be usedto explore strategies that promote the interventions' sustained use anddissemination. Community-Based Participatory Research will be used throughout. Wewill include women aged at least 18 years of age with a confirmed diagnosis ofearly stage breast cancer (I to IIIA) from both higher and lower SES, providedthey speak English, Spanish, or Mandarin Chinese. Our primary outcome measure is the 16-item validated Decision Quality Instrument. We will use a regressionframework, mediation analyses, and multiple informants analysis. Heterogeneity oftreatment effects analyses for SES, age, ethnicity, race, literacy, language, andstudy site will be performed.DISCUSSION: Currently, women of lower SES are more likely to make treatmentdecisions based on incomplete or uninformed preferences, potentially leading topoorer decision quality, quality of life, and decision regret. This study hopesto identify solutions that effectively improve patient-centered care acrosssocioeconomic strata and reduce disparities in decision and care quality.TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT03136367 at ClinicalTrials.gov Protocol version:Manuscript based on study protocol version 2.2, 7 November 2017.DOI: 10.1186/s12889-018-5109-2 PMCID: PMC5812033PMID: 29439691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]