Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.132. Indian J Palliat Care. 2018 Jan-Mar;24(1):35-38. doi: 10.4103/IJPC.IJPC_137_17.Prevalence and Severity of Sleep Disturbances among Patients with Early BreastCancer.Fakih R(1), Rahal M(1), Hilal L(1), Hamieh L(1), Dany M(1), Karam S(1), ShehabL(1), El Saghir NS(1), Tfayli A(1), Salem Z(1), Assi H(1), Temraz S(1),Shamseddine A(1), Mukherji D(1).Author information: (1)Naef K. Basile Cancer Institute, American University of Beirut Medical Centre,Beirut, Lebanon.Context: Data regarding health-related quality of life in breast cancer patients in the Middle East are limited with fatigue and sleep disturbance being the most distressing symptoms reported by patients treated for early breast cancer.Aims: The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence and incidence ofinsomnia among patients with early-stage breast cancer patients treated withchemotherapy.Subjects and Methods: This was a prospective cohort study. We enrolled patientswith stage I-III breast cancer patients treated with chemotherapy at the AmericanUniversity of Beirut Medical Center. At three different time points (prior to,during, and following chemotherapy), we assessed the severity of sleepdisturbances using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index and the Insomnia SeverityIndex. The Institution Review Board approved the study.Results: Fifty-two patients were recruited. There was a significant increase insleep disturbances during chemotherapy which improved to below baseline levels oncompletion of therapy. Prior to chemotherapy, 36% of patients reported poor sleepversus 58% during chemotherapy. The percentage of patients reporting clinicalinsomnia rose from 11% pretreatment to 36% during chemotherapy reflecting asignificant symptomatic burden that is poorly documented and managed in routineclinical practice.Conclusions: Patients with nonmetastatic breast cancer experience an increase in sleep disturbances during the treatment phase. Physicians should be aware of the need to routinely screen for sleep disturbance in breast cancer patientsundergoing chemotherapy.DOI: 10.4103/IJPC.IJPC_137_17 PMCID: PMC5801627PMID: 29440804 