36. Psychooncology. 2018 Apr;27(4):1264-1269. doi: 10.1002/pon.4664. Epub 2018 Mar25.Enhancing decision-making about adjuvant chemotherapy in early breast cancerfollowing EndoPredict testing.Fallowfield L(1), Matthews L(1), May S(1), Jenkins V(1), Bloomfield D(2).Author information: (1)Sussex Health Outcomes Research and Education in Cancer (SHORE-C), Brightonand Sussex Medical School, University of Sussex, Brighton, UK.(2)Sussex Cancer Centre, Brighton and Sussex University Hospitals Trust,Brighton, UK.OBJECTIVE: Chemotherapy side-effects can be substantial. There is increasingrecognition that some oestrogen receptor positive (ER +ve), human epidermalgrowth factor receptor 2 negative (HER2 -ve) patients with breast cancer deriveno benefit from chemotherapy and experience only iatrogenic harm. Gene expressionprofiling tests help refine recurrence risk and likely chemotherapy benefit.EndoPredict® is one such test, which classifies risks of distant recurrence aslow or high in patients treated with surgery and adjuvant endocrine therapyalone. We compared treatment decisions pre-test and post-test results, patients' anxiety, decisional conflict, and oncologists' confidence about the decisionsmade.METHODS: Fourteen oncologists in 7 UK hospitals saw 149 pts judged to haveequivocal indications for chemotherapy. Provisional treatment decisions wererecorded then reconsidered when EPClin results were available. Pre-test andpost-test results, patients completed State/Trait Anxiety Inventories (STAI), andthe decisional conflict scale. Oncologists also recorded basic clinical details, their agreement with, and confidence about treatment decisions.RESULTS: Sixty-seven percent patients initially prescribed endocrine alone withhigh risk result upgraded to endocrine+chemotherapy (E + C); 83% prescribed E + Cand had low risk scores, downgraded to E. None of 46 patients initially favouringE alone, who were low risk, changed decisions. Oncologists' confidence aboutdecisions was significantly increased following the results (P = 0.002). Patientswith downgraded treatment decisions had significantly lower anxiety scores(P = 0.045); those upgraded had increased scores (P = 0.001). Overall decisional conflict and uncertainty fell significantly post-test (P < 0.022).CONCLUSIONS: EndoPredict scores increased oncologists' and patients'decision-making confidence, generally improving the matching of risk with therapydecisions.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4664 PMID: 29448311 