37. Biomaterials. 2018 Apr;162:144-153. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.02.015. Epub2018 Feb 8.Metabolomics facilitates the discrimination of the specific anti-cancer effectsof free- and polymer-conjugated doxorubicin in breast cancer models.Armiñán A(1), Palomino-Schätzlein M(2), Deladriere C(1), Arroyo-Crespo JJ(1),Vicente-Ruiz S(1), Vicent MJ(3), Pineda-Lucena A(4).Author information: (1)Polymer Therapeutics Laboratory, Centro de Investigación Príncipe Felipe,Valencia, Spain.(2)Joint Research Unit in Clinical Metabolomics, Centro de Investigación PríncipeFelipe / Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, Valencia, Spain.(3)Polymer Therapeutics Laboratory, Centro de Investigación Príncipe Felipe,Valencia, Spain. Electronic address: mjvicent@cipf.es.(4)Joint Research Unit in Clinical Metabolomics, Centro de Investigación PríncipeFelipe / Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, Valencia, Spain; DrugDiscovery Unit, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria La Fe, Valencia, Spain.Electronic address: pineda_ant@gva.es.Metabolomics is becoming a relevant tool for understanding the molecularmechanisms involved in the response to new drug delivery systems. Theapplicability of this experimental approach to cell cultures and animal modelsmakes metabolomics a useful tool for establishing direct connections betweenin vitro and in vivo data, thus providing a reliable platform for thecharacterization of chemotherapeutic agents. Herein, we used metabolomic profilesbased on nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy to evaluate thebiochemical pathways involved in the response to a chemotherapeutic anthracyclinedrug (Doxorubicin, Dox) and an N-(2-hydroxypropyl) methacrylamide (HPMA)copolymer-conjugated form (HPMA-Dox) in an in vitro cell culture model and anin vivo orthotopic breast cancer model. We also used protein expression and flow cytometry studies to obtain a better coverage of the biochemical alterationsassociated with the administration of these compounds. The overall analysisrevealed that polymer conjugation leads to increased apoptosis, reducedglycolysis, and reduced levels of phospholipids when compared to the freechemotherapeutic drug. Our results represent a first step in the application ofintegrated in vitro and in vivo metabolomic studies to the evaluation of drugdelivery systems.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.02.015 PMID: 29448142 