Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Oguzhan Alagoz receivedpersonal fees from Ally Clinical Diagnostics outside the submitted work. MartinYaffe received grants from GE Healthcare, Mammographic Physics and Volpara HealthTechnologies outside the submitted work. No other competing interests weredeclared.150. J Clin Pathol. 2018 Aug;71(8):672-679. doi: 10.1136/jclinpath-2017-204977. Epub2018 Feb 13.Interobserver variation in the diagnosis of fibroepithelial lesions of thebreast: a multicentre audit by digital pathology.Dessauvagie BF(1)(2)(3)(4), Lee AHS(5), Meehan K(4), Nijhawan A(1), Tan PH(6),Thomas J(7), Tie B(3), Treanor D(1)(2)(8), Umar S(1), Hanby AM(1)(2),Millican-Slater R(1).Author information: (1)Department of Cellular Pathology, St James's University Hospital, LeedsTeaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.(2)Leeds Institute of Cancer and Pathology, St James's University Hospital, LeedsUniversity, Leeds, UK.(3)Department of Anatomical Pathology, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, FionaStanley Hospital, Murdoch, Western Australia, Australia.(4)UWA Medical School and School of Biomedical Science, University of WesternAustralia, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.(5)Department of Histopathology, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust,Nottingham, UK.(6)Division of Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.(7)Department of Pathology, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.(8)Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.AIM: Fibroepithelial lesions (FELs) of the breast span a morphological continuum including lesions where distinction between cellular fibroadenoma (FA) and benignphyllodes tumour (PT) is difficult. The distinction is clinically important with FAs managed conservatively while equivocal lesions and PTs are managed withsurgery. We sought to audit core biopsy diagnoses of equivocal FELs by digitalpathology and to investigate whether digital point counting is useful inclarifying FEL diagnoses.METHOD: Scanned slide images from cores and subsequent excisions of 69 equivocal FELs were examined in a multicentre audit by eight pathologists to determine the agreement and accuracy of core needle biopsy (CNB) diagnoses and by digital pointcounting of stromal cellularity and expansion to determine if classificationcould be improved.RESULTS: Interobserver variation was high on CNB with a unanimous diagnosis from all pathologists in only eight cases of FA, diagnoses of both FA and PT on thesame CNB in 15 and a 'weak' mean kappa agreement between pathologists (k=0.36).'Moderate' agreement was observed on CNBs among breast specialists (k=0.44) andon excision samples (k=0.49). Up to 23% of lesions confidently diagnosed as FA onCNB were PT on excision and up to 30% of lesions confidently diagnosed as PT onCNB were FA on excision. Digital point counting did not aid in the classificationof FELs.CONCLUSION: Accurate and reproducible diagnosis of equivocal FELs is difficult,particularly on CNB, resulting in poor interobserver agreement and suboptimalaccuracy. Given the diagnostic difficulty, and surgical implications, equivocalFELs should be reported in consultation with experienced breast pathologists as asmall number of benign FAs can be selected out from equivocal lesions.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/jclinpath-2017-204977 PMID: 29440134  [Indexed for MEDLINE]