148. BMJ Open. 2018 Feb 10;8(2):e019412. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019412.Interventions to increase access to or uptake of physical health screening inpeople with severe mental illness: a realist review.Lamontagne-Godwin F(1), Burgess C(2), Clement S(3), Gasston-Hales M(4), GreeneC(4), Manyande A(1), Taylor D(4), Walters P(5), Barley E(1).Author information: (1)School of Human and Social Sciences, University of West London, London, UK.(2)Primary Care and Public Health Sciences, King's College London, London, UK.(3)Freelance Researcher, London, UK.(4)College of Nursing, Midwifery and Healthcare, University of West London,London, UK.(5)Department of Research and Development, Dorset HealthCare University NHSFoundation Trust, Bournemouth, UK.OBJECTIVES: To identify and evaluate interventions aimed at increasing uptake of,or access to, physical health screening by adults with severe mental illness; to examine why interventions might work.DESIGN: Realist review.SETTING: Primary, secondary and tertiary care.RESULTS: A systematic search identified 1448 studies, of which 22 met theinclusion criteria. Studies were from Australia (n=3), Canada (n=1), Hong Kong(n=1), UK (n=11) and USA (n=6). The studies focused on breast cancer screening,infection preventive services and metabolic syndrome (MS) screening by targeting MS-related risk factors. The interventions could be divided into those focusingon (1) health service delivery changes (12 studies), using quality improvement,randomised controlled trial, cluster randomised feasibility trial, retrospective audit, cross-sectional study and satisfaction survey designs and (2) tests oftools designed to facilitate screening (10 studies) using consecutive caseseries, quality improvement, retrospective evaluation and pre-post audit studydesigns. All studies reported improved uptake of screening, or that patients had received screening they would not have had without the intervention. Noestimation of overall effect size was possible due to heterogeneity in studydesign and quality. The following factors may contribute to intervention success:staff and stakeholder involvement in screening, staff flexibility when takingphysical measurements (eg, using adapted equipment), strong links with primarycare and having a pharmacist on the ward.CONCLUSIONS: A range of interventions may be effective, but better qualityresearch is needed to determine any effect size. Researchers should consider how interventions may work when designing and testing them in order to target better the specific needs of this population in the most appropriate setting.Behaviour-change interventions to reduce identified barriers of patient andhealth professional resistance to screening this population are required.Resource constraints, clarity over professional roles and better coordinationwith primary care need to be addressed.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019412 PMCID: PMC5829934PMID: 29440160 