88. J Bone Miner Res. 2018 Jun;33(6):1141-1153. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.3406. Epub 2018 Mar24.A Complex Role for Lipocalin 2 in Bone Metabolism: Global Ablation in MiceInduces Osteopenia Caused by an Altered Energy Metabolism.Capulli M(1), Ponzetti M(1), Maurizi A(1), Gemini-Piperni S(1), Berger T(2), Mak TW(2), Teti A(1), Rucci N(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biotechnological and Applied Clinical Sciences, University ofL'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.(2)The Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess MargaretCancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.Lipocalin 2 (Lcn2) is an adipokine that carries out a variety of functions indiverse organs. We investigated the bone phenotype and the energy metabolism ofLcn2 globally deleted mice (Lcn2-/- ) at different ages. Lcn2-/- mice werelargely osteopenic, exhibiting lower trabecular bone volume, lesser trabecularnumber, and higher trabecular separation when compared to wild-type (WT) mice.Lcn2-/- mice showed a lower osteoblast number and surface over bone surface, and subsequently a significantly lower bone formation rate, while osteoclastvariables were unremarkable. Surprisingly, we found no difference in alkalinephosphatase (ALP) activity or in nodule mineralization in Lcn2-/- calvariaosteoblast cultures, while less ALP-positive colonies were obtained from freshly isolated Lcn2-/- bone marrow stromal cells, suggesting a nonautonomous osteoblastresponse to Lcn2 ablation. Given that Lcn2-/- mice showed higher body weight and hyperphagia, we investigated whether their osteoblast impairment could be due to altered energy metabolism. Lcn2-/- mice showed lower fasted glycemia andhyperinsulinemia. Consistently, glucose tolerance was significantly higher inLcn2-/- compared to WT mice, while insulin tolerance was similar. Lcn2-/- micealso exhibited polyuria, glycosuria, proteinuria, and renal cortex vacuolization,suggesting a kidney contribution to their phenotype. Interestingly, theexpression of the glucose transporter protein type 1, that conveys glucose intothe osteoblasts and is essential for osteogenesis, was significantly lower in theLcn2-/- bone, possibly explaining the in vivo osteoblast impairment induced bythe global Lcn2 ablation. Taken together, these results unveil an important role of Lcn2 in bone metabolism, highlighting a link with glucose metabolism that ismore complex than expected from the current knowledge. © 2018 American Societyfor Bone and Mineral Research.© 2018 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.3406 PMID: 29444358 