99. J Nanosci Nanotechnol. 2018 Jul 1;18(7):4478-4486. doi: 10.1166/jnn.2018.15286.Chitosan Stabilized Gold-Folate-Poly(lactide-co-glycolide) Nanoplexes Facilitate Efficient Gene Delivery in Hepatic and Breast Cancer Cells.Akinyelu J(1), Singh M(1).Author information: (1)Non-Viral Gene and Drug Delivery Laboratory, Discipline of Biochemistry,University of KwaZulu-Natal, Private Bag X54001, Durban, 4000, South Africa.The biodegradable polymer, poly(lactide-co-glycolide) is a popular polymer ofchoice in many nanotherapeutic studies. Herein, we report on the synthesis andevaluation of four chitosan stabilized poly(lactide-co-glycolide) nanoparticleswith and without coating with gold, and the targeting ligand, folic acid, aspotential non-viral gene delivery vectors. The poly(lactide-co-glycolide)nanoparticles were synthesized via nanoprecipitation/solvent evaporation methodin conjunction with the surface functionalizing folic acid and chitosan. Thephysiochemical properties (morphology, particle size, zeta potential, folicacid/chitosan presence, DNA binding), and biological properties (nucleaseprotection, in vitro cytotoxicity and transfection potential in human kidney,hepatocellular carcinoma and breast adenocarcinoma cells), of all four gene boundnanoparticles were evaluated. Gel retardation assays confirmed that all thenanoparticles were able to successfully bind the reporter plasmid, pCMV-luc DNAat varying weight ratios. The gold-folate-poly(lactide-co-glycolide) nanoplexeswith the highest binding efficiency (w/w ratio 4:1), best protected the plasmidDNA as evidenced from the nuclease protection assays. Furthermore, thesenanoplexes presented as spherical particles with an average particle size of199.4 nm and zeta potential of 35.7 mV. Folic acid and chitosan functionalizationof the nanoparticles was confirmed by attenuated total reflection-Fouriertransform infrared spectroscopy. All nanoplexes maintained over 90% cellviability in all cell lines investigated. Interestingly, thegold-folate-poly(lactide-co-glycolide) nanoplexes showed a greater transgeneactivity in the hepatic and breast cancer cells compared to the othernanocomplexes in the same cell lines. The favorable size, colloidal stability,low cytotoxicity, significant transgene expression, and nuclease protectionability in vitro, all provide support for the use ofgold-folate-poly(lactide-co-glycolide) nanoplexes in future gene therapyapplications.DOI: 10.1166/jnn.2018.15286 PMID: 29442622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]