Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.128. J Multidiscip Healthc. 2018 Feb 1;11:75-83. doi: 10.2147/JMDH.S152947.eCollection 2018.Exploration of the contexts surrounding the implementation of an interventionsupporting return-to-work after breast cancer in a primary care setting: startingpoint for an intervention development.Bilodeau K(1)(2), Tremblay D(2)(3), Durand MJ(4)(5).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Université de Sherbrooke, Longueuil, QC, Canada.(2)Hôpital Charles-LeMoyne Research Center, Longueuil, QC, Canada.(3)School of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Université deSherbrooke, Longueuil, QC, Canada.(4)School of Rehabilitation, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Université de Sherbrooke, Longueuil, QC, Canada.(5)Centre for Action in Work Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation, Longueuil,QC, Canada.Background: Many recommendations have been made regarding survivorship careprovided by teams of primary care professionals. However, the nature of thatfollow-up, including support for return-to-work (RTW) after cancer, remainslargely undefined. As implementation problems are frequently context-related, apilot study was conducted to describe the contexts, according to Grol andWensing, in which a new intervention is to be implemented. This pilot study isthe first of three steps in intervention development planning.Method: In-depth semi-structured interviews (n=6) were carried out withstakeholders selected for their knowledgeable perspective of various settings,such as hospitals, primary care, employers, and community-based organizations.Interviews focused on participants' perceptions of key contextual facilitatorsand barriers to consider for the deployment of an RTW intervention in a primarycare setting. Data from interviews were transcribed and analyzed. A contentanalysis was performed based on an iterative process.Results: An intervention supporting the process of RTW in primary care makessense for participants. Results suggest that important levers are present inorganizational, professional, and social settings. However, many barriers, mainlyrelated to organizational settings, have been identified, eg, distribution oftasks for survivor follow-up, continuity of information, and coordination of carebetween specialized oncology care and general primary care.Conclusion: To develop and deploy the intervention, recommendations that emerged from this pilot study for overcoming barriers were identified, eg, training(professionals, survivors, and employers), the use of communication tools, andadopting a practice guide for survivor care. The results were also helpful infocusing on the relevance of an intervention supporting the RTW process as acomponent of primary care for survivors.DOI: 10.2147/JMDH.S152947 PMCID: PMC5798536PMID: 29440910 