28. Mod Pathol. 2018 Jul;31(7):1004-1011. doi: 10.1038/s41379-018-0020-z. Epub 2018Feb 15.Anatomic and terminological description and processing of breast pathologicspecimens from oncoplastic large volume displacement surgeries.Liang Y(1), Naber SP(2), Chatterjee A(3).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Tufts Medical Center, Boston,MA, USA.(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Tufts Medical Center, Boston,MA, USA. snaber@tuftsmedicalcenter.org.(3)Department of Surgery, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.Oncoplastic surgery provides breast cancer patients with greater aestheticsatisfaction without compromising disease-free survival or overall survival rate.Large volume displacement oncoplastic surgical techniques have becomeincreasingly popular as a strategy for improving aesthetic outcomes and extendingthe option of breast conservation therapy. They often involve breast reduction ormastopexy reconstructive techniques to facilitate resection of large breastvolumes on the side of the breast cancer and accompanied with symmetrycontralateral breast reductions or mastopexies. However, dissection of largevolume displacement oncoplastic surgical specimens presents unique challenges.Compared with traditional mastectomy specimens, they are relatively complicated, which requires the pathologist to understand the surgical procedure and theanatomy of the specimens. Given this, we introduce the standard anatomical andterminological description for the breast pathologic specimens of five largevolume displacement oncoplastic surgical techniques commonly performed in ourinstitution for breast cancer management. The individual surgical specimen iscomposed of one or several components, which include lateral wall, superiorkeyhole, medial wall, lateral wing, inferior pole, and medial wing. We alsopresent specimen documentation and sectioning procedures used in our institution.The advantages for the patient provided by large volume reduction oncoplasticsurgery must be supported by proper evaluation of the surgical pathologyspecimen. Therefore, we recommend that each section taken from the oncoplasticspecimen be labeled as to its specific location in the specimen components.Standardized nomenclature and technique will assist pathologists in accuratelyevaluating the surgical margins.DOI: 10.1038/s41379-018-0020-z PMID: 29449682 