Conflict of interest statement: Not applicable.Not applicable.The authors declarethat they have no competing interests.Springer Nature remains neutral with regardto jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.71. Cancer Manag Res. 2018 Feb 8;10:249-256. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S150960. eCollection2018.Comparative effectiveness of early-line nab-paclitaxel vs. paclitaxel in patientswith metastatic breast cancer: a US community-based real-world analysis.Mahtani RL(1), Parisi M(2), Glück S(3), Ni Q(2), Park S(4), Pelletier C(2), FariaC(2), Braiteh F(5)(6).Author information: (1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Miami, Miami, FL.(2)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Celgene Corporation, Summit, NJ.(3)Global Medical Affairs, Celgene Corporation, Summit, NJ.(4)School of Pharmacy, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH.(5)Department of Hematology/Oncology, University of Nevada School of Medicine,Las Vegas, NV.(6)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Comprehensive Cancer Centers of Nevada, LasVegas, NV, USA.Background: Real-world analyses of treatments for patients with metastatic breastcancer are limited. We evaluated the comparative effectiveness of nab-paclitaxel vs. paclitaxel in patients with metastatic breast cancer using data from anelectronic medical record database from community practices across the USA.Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort study using fully de-identified datafrom an independent US electronic medical record platform of patients withmetastatic breast cancer initiating single-agent nab-paclitaxel or paclitaxel as a first- or second-line treatment from December 1, 2010 to October 6, 2014. Theclinical efficacy objectives were time to treatment discontinuation (TTD) andtime to next treatment (TTNT). Subgroup analyses were performed in patients with 2 types of metastatic breast cancer as follows: 1) hormone receptor-positive and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative, and 2) triple-negativedisease.Results: This analysis included 925 patients. Patients receiving nab-paclitaxelvs. paclitaxel had significantly longer TTD (median 4.2 vs. 2.8 months, P<0.0001)and TTNT (median 6.0 vs. 4.2 months, P<0.0001); similar outcomes were observedfor patients with hormone receptor-positive/human epidermal growth factorreceptor 2 negative disease. Compared with paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel wasassociated with significantly longer TTD in patients with triple-negativedisease. nab-Paclitaxel was associated with significantly less all-gradeneuropathy, anemia, pain, and diarrhea than paclitaxel. Antiemetic andantihistamine use were significantly less frequent with nab-paclitaxel vs.paclitaxel, whereas use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, hydratingagents, and bone-directed therapy to decrease skeletal-related events were morefrequent.Conclusion: nab-Paclitaxel demonstrated improved clinical effectiveness compared with paclitaxel when examining TTD and TTNT in patients with metastatic breastcancer in a real-world setting.DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S150960 PMCID: PMC5808700PMID: 29445301 