145. J Genet Couns. 2018 Feb 17. doi: 10.1007/s10897-018-0223-y. [Epub ahead of print]Development and Pilot Testing of a Decision Aid for Genomic Research ParticipantsNotified of Clinically Actionable Research Findings for Cancer Risk.Willis AM(1), Smith SK(2), Meiser B(2), Ballinger ML(3), Thomas DM(3), TattersallM(4); International Sarcoma Kindred Study (ISKS); Kathleen Cuningham NationalConsortium for Research into Familial Breast Cancer (kConFab), Young MA(3)(5).Author information: (1)Psychosocial Research Group, Prince of Wales Clinical School, UNSW Australia, Level 4, Lowy Cancer Research Centre C25, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia.amanda.willis@student.unsw.edu.au.(2)Psychosocial Research Group, Prince of Wales Clinical School, UNSW Australia, Level 4, Lowy Cancer Research Centre C25, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia.(3)The Kinghorn Cancer Centre and Cancer Division, Garvan Institute of MedicalResearch, Darlinghurst, NSW, Australia.(4)Department of Cancer Medicine, Sydney Medical School, Royal Prince AlfredHospital, Camperdown, NSW, Australia.(5)Familial Cancer Centre, The Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, VIC,Australia.Germline genomic testing is increasingly used in research to identify geneticcauses of disease, including cancer. However, there is evidence that individuals who are notified of clinically actionable research findings have difficultymaking informed decisions regarding uptake of genetic counseling for thesefindings. This study aimed to produce and pilot test a decision aid to assistparticipants in genomic research studies who are notified of clinicallyactionable research findings to make informed choices regarding uptake of geneticcounseling. Development was guided by published literature, the InternationalPatient Decision Aid Standards, and the expertise of a steering committee ofclinicians, researchers, and consumers. Decision aid acceptability was assessedby self-report questionnaire. All 19 participants stated that the decision aidwas easy to read, clearly presented, increased their understanding of theimplications of taking up research findings, and would be helpful indecision-making. While low to moderate levels of distress/worry were reportedafter reading the booklet, a majority of participants also reported feelingreassured. All participants would recommend the booklet to others consideringuptake of clinically actionable research findings. Results indicate the decision aid is acceptable to the target audience, with potential as a useful decisionsupport tool for genomic research participants.DOI: 10.1007/s10897-018-0223-y PMID: 29455319 