84. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2018 Feb;122:133-143. doi:10.1016/j.critrevonc.2017.12.018. Epub 2017 Dec 29.Melatonin and breast cancer: Evidences from preclinical and human studies.Kubatka P(1), Zubor P(2), Busselberg D(3), Kwon TK(4), Adamek M(5), PetrovicD(6), Opatrilova R(7), Gazdikova K(8), Caprnda M(9), Rodrigo L(10), Danko J(2),Kruzliak P(11).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Biology, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine, ComeniusUniversity in Bratislava, Martin, Slovak Republic; Department of ExperimentalCarcinogenesis, Division of Oncology, Biomedical Center Martin, Jessenius Facultyof Medicine, Comenius University in Bratislava, Martin, Slovak Republic.Electronic address: kubatka@jfmed.uniba.sk.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine,Comenius University in Bratislava, Martin, Slovak Republic.(3)Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar, Qatar Foundation - Education City,Doha, Qatar.(4)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Keimyung University, Daegu,South Korea.(5)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, MedicalUniversity of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.(6)Institute of Histology and Embryology, Faculty of Medicine, University ofLjubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.(7)Department of Chemical Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Veterinaryand Pharmaceutical Sciences, Brno, Czech Republic.(8)Department of Nutrition, Faculty of Nursing and Professional Health Studies,Slovak Medical University, Bratislava, Slovak Republic; Department of GeneralMedicine, Faculty of Medicine, Slovak Medical University, Bratislava, SlovakRepublic. Electronic address: katarina.gazdikova@szu.sk.(9)2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Comenius University in Bratislava, Bratislava, Slovak Republic.(10)University of Oviedo, Central University Hospital of Asturias (HUCA), Oviedo,Spain.(11)Department of Chemical Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Veterinaryand Pharmaceutical Sciences, Brno, Czech Republic. Electronic address:kruzliakp@vfu.cz.The breast cancer affects women with high mortality and morbidity worldwide. The risk is highest in the most developed world but also is markedly rising in thedeveloping countries. It is well documented that melatonin has a significantanti-tumor activities demonstrated on various cancer types in a plethora ofpreclinical studies. In breast cancer, melatonin is capable to disruptestrogen-dependent cell signaling, resulting in a reduction ofestrogen-stimulated cells, moreover, it's obvious neuro-immunomodulatory effectin organism was described. Several prospective studies have demonstrated theinverse correlation between melatonin metabolites and the risk of breast cancer. This correlation was confirmed by observational studies that found lowermelatonin levels in breast cancer patients. Moreover, clinical studies haveshowed that circadian disruption of melatonin synthesis, specifically night shiftwork, is linked to increased breast cancer risk. In this regard, properlight/dark exposure with more selective use of light at night along with oralsupplementation of melatonin may have benefits for high-risk women. The resultsof current preclinical studies, the mechanism of action, and clinical efficacy ofmelatonin in breast cancer are reviewed in this paper. Melatonin alone or incombined administration seems to be appropriate drug for the treatment of earlystages of breast cancer with documented low toxicity over a wide range of doses. These and other issues are also discussed.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2017.12.018 PMID: 29458781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]