93. Acta Biomater. 2018 Apr 15;71:363-378. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.02.011. Epub2018 Feb 16.Investigation of adhesive interactions in the specific targeting ofTriptorelin-conjugated PEG-coated magnetite nanoparticles to breast cancer cells.Hu J(1), Youssefian S(2), Obayemi J(3), Malatesta K(4), Rahbar N(5), SoboyejoW(6).Author information: (1)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University,Olden Street, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA; Princeton Institute of Science andTechnology of Materials (PRISM), Princeton University, 70 Prospect Street,Princeton, NJ 08544, USA. Electronic address: jingjieh@princeton.edu.(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Higgins Lab, Worcester PolytechnicInstitute (WPI), 100 Institute Road, Worcester, MA 01609, USA. Electronicaddress: syoussefian@wpi.edu.(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Higgins Lab, Worcester PolytechnicInstitute (WPI), 100 Institute Road, Worcester, MA 01609, USA; Department ofBiomedical Engineering, Gateway Park Life Sciences Center, Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), 60 Prescott Street, Worcester, MA 01605, USA. Electronicaddress: jdobayemi@wpi.edu.(4)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University,Olden Street, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA. Electronic address:kmalates@princeton.edu.(5)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Higgins Lab, Worcester PolytechnicInstitute (WPI), 100 Institute Road, Worcester, MA 01609, USA; Department ofCivil and Environmental Engineering, Kaven Hall, Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), 100 Institute Road, Worcester, MA 01609, USA. Electronic address:nrahbar@wpi.edu.(6)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University,Olden Street, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA; Princeton Institute of Science andTechnology of Materials (PRISM), Princeton University, 70 Prospect Street,Princeton, NJ 08544, USA; Department of Mechanical Engineering, Higgins Lab,Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), 100 Institute Road, Worcester, MA 01609,USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Gateway Park Life Sciences Center,Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), 60 Prescott Street, Worcester, MA 01605,USA. Electronic address: wsoboyejo@wpi.edu.The understanding of adhesive interaction at the nanoscale between functionalizednanoparticles and biological cells is of great importance to develop effectivetheranostic nanocarriers for targeted cancer therapy. Here, we report acombination of experimental and computational approaches to evaluate the adhesionbetween Triptorelin (a Luteinizing Hormone-Releasing Hormone (LHRH)agonist)-conjugated poly-(ethylene glycol) (PEG)-coated magnetite nanoparticles(Triptorelin-MNPs) and breast cells. The adhesion forces between Triptorelin-MNPsand normal/cancerous breast cells are obtained using atomic force microscopy. Thecorresponding work of adhesion is then estimated using Johnson-Kendall-Robertsmodel. Our results demonstrate that Triptorelin-MNPs have a fourteen-fold greaterwork of adhesion to breast cancer cells than to normal breast cells. In addition,the work of adhesion between Triptorelin-MNPs and breast cancer cells is found tobe three times more than that between unmodified MNPs and breast cancer cells.Hence, the experimental observation indicates that Triptorelin ligands facilitatethe specific targeting of breast cancer cells. Furthermore, molecular dynamicssimulations are performed to investigate the molecular origins of the adhesiveinteractions. The simulations reveal that the interactions between molecules(e.g. Triptorelin and PEG) and LHRH receptors are dominated by van der Waalsenergies, while the interactions of these molecules with cell membrane aredominated by electrostatic interactions. Moreover, both experimental andcomputational results reveal that PEG serves as an effective coating thatenhances adhesive interactions to breast cancer cells that over-express LHRHreceptors, while reduces the adhesion to normal breast cells. Our resultshighlight the potential to develop Triptorelin-MNPs into tumor-specific MRIcontrast agents and drug carriers.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Systematicinvestigation of adhesive interactions between functionalized nanoparticles andcancer cells is of great importance in developing effective theranosticnanocarriers for targeted cancer therapy. Herein, we use a combination of atomic force microscopy technique and molecular dynamics simulations approach to explorethe adhesive interactions at the nanoscale between Triptorelin-conjugatedpolyethylene glycol (PEG)-coated magnetite nanoparticles and normal/cancerousbreast cells. This study characterizes and quantifies the work of adhesion, aswell as adhesion forces, at the nanocarrier/cell interfaces, unravels themolecular origins of adhesive interactions and highlights the effectiveness ofPEG coatings and Triptorelin ligands in the specific targeting of breast cancercells. Our findings expand the fundamental understanding of nanoparticle/celladhesion and provide guidelines for the design of more rational nanocarriers.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.02.011 PMID: 29458110 