151. BMJ Open. 2018 Feb 17;8(2):e019530. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019530.The development of an online intervention (Care Assist) to support malecaregivers of women with breast cancer: a protocol for a mixed methods study.Levesque JV(1)(2)(3), Gerges M(1)(2), Girgis A(1)(2).Author information: (1)Psycho-Oncology Research Group, Centre for Oncology Education and ResearchTranslation (CONCERT), Ingham Institute for Applied Medical Research, Liverpool, New South Wales, Australia.(2)South Western Sydney Clinical School, The University of New South Wales,Liverpool, New South Wales, Australia.(3)School of Psychological Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and HealthSciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.INTRODUCTION: It is projected that 17 730 women will be diagnosed with breastcancer in Australia in 2017, with 3114 of these predicted to be fatal. Caregivingfor a person with cancer can significantly impact caregivers' physical and mentalhealth. Many caregivers feel ill-prepared for this role, especially when careinvolves complex medical needs accompanied by the psychological challengesexperienced following a cancer diagnosis.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study employs a convergent, parallel, mixed methodsdesign combining an online survey with an optional interview. Eligible,consenting participants will be invited to participate in a survey to examine (1)participants' unmet needs, (2) challenges experienced throughout the cancerjourney, (3) perceived self-efficacy to determine participants' level ofconfidence in undertaking caregiver tasks, (4) views regarding suitable contentto include in a caregiver training intervention, (5) preferred method ofintervention delivery (ie, website, smartphone application and/or interactivevideo), and (6) preferences for the timing of delivery of the interventioncontent (ie, ability to choose a module, access to the entire content or have aset order in which they receive the information). Caregivers will be eligible to participate if they (1) are male, (2) have previously cared for or are currently caring for a woman with breast cancer, (3) are aged over 18 years, and (4) do notcurrently suffer from a cognitive impairment or mental health condition (ie,depression, anxiety). Data analysis will include examination of differences inpsychological outcomes and needs based on demographic variables, and mediationanalysis to explore whether self-efficacy mediates the relationship betweenchallenges, unmet needs and distress. Qualitative data will be analysed usingthematic analysis.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study was reviewed and approved by two humanresearch ethics committees within Australia. We anticipate two to threepublications may be developed from the study.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019530 PMCID: PMC5855323PMID: 29455166 