104. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2018 Jun;115(6):1403-1415. doi: 10.1002/bit.26566. Epub 2018Mar 6.Combination drug delivery via multilamellar vesicles enables targeting of tumorcells and tumor vasculature.Liu Y(1), Kim YJ(2), Siriwon N(1), Rohrs JA(3), Yu Z(4), Wanga P(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)Mork Family Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science,University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California.(2)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of SouthernCalifornia, Los Angeles, California.(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Southern California, LosAngeles, California.(4)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.Blood vessel development is critical for the continued growth and progression of solid tumors and, therefore, makes an attractive target for improving cancertherapy. Indeed, vascular-targeted therapies have been extensively explored butthey have shown minimal efficacy as monotherapies. Combretastatin A4 (CA-4) is a tubulin-binding vascular disrupting agent that selectively targets theestablished tumor endothelium, causing rapid vascular beak down. Despite itspotent anticancer potential, the drug has dose-limiting side effects,particularly in the form of cardiovascular toxicity. Furthermore, its pooraqueous solubility and the resulting limited bioavailability hinder its antitumoractivity in the clinic. To improve the therapeutic efficacy of CA-4, weinvestigated its application as a combination therapy with doxorubicin (Dox) in atumor vasculature targeted delivery vehicle: peptide-modified cross-linkedmultilamellar liposomal vesicles (cMLVs). In vitro cell culture studies showedthat a tumor vasculature-targeting peptide, RIF7, could facilitate highercellular uptake of drug-loaded cMLVs, and consequently enhance the antitumorefficacy in both drug resistant B16 mouse melanoma and human MDA-MB-231 breastcancer cells. In vivo, upon intravenous injection, targeted cMLVs couldefficiently deliver both Dox and CA-4 to significantly slow tumor growth through the specific interaction of the targeting peptide with its receptor on thesurface of tumor vasculature. This study demonstrates the potential of our novel targeted combination therapy delivery vehicle to improve the outcome of cancertreatment.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/bit.26566 PMID: 29457630 