130. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2018 Apr 1;28(6):1077-1083. doi:10.1016/j.bmcl.2018.02.016. Epub 2018 Feb 9.Synthetic strigolactone analogues reveal anti-cancer activities on hepatocellularcarcinoma cells.Hasan MN(1), Choudhry H(2), Razvi SS(1), Moselhy SS(3), Kumosani TA(4), ZamzamiMA(5), Omran Z(6), Halwani MA(7), Al-Babili S(8), Abualnaja KO(9), Al-MalkiAL(9), Alhosin M(10), Asami T(11).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Cancer Metabolism and Epigenetic Unit, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Cancer and Mutagenesis Unit,King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, SaudiArabia; Bioactive Natural Products Research Group, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Experimental Biochemistry Unit, King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Bioactive NaturalProducts Research Group, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia;Biochemistry Department, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Experimental Biochemistry Unit, King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Production ofBioproducts for Industrial Applications Research Group, King AbdulazizUniversity, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.(5)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Cancer Metabolism and Epigenetic Unit, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Cancer and Mutagenesis Unit,King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, SaudiArabia.(6)College of Pharmacy, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah 21955, Saudi Arabia.(7)Nanomedicine Department, King Abdullah International Medical Research Center(KAIMRC), King Saud bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, Saudi Arabia.(8)King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Computational BioscienceResearch Center, Division of Biological and Environmental Sciences andEngineering, Thuwal 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia.(9)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Experimental Biochemistry Unit, King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Bioactive NaturalProducts Research Group, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.(10)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Cancer Metabolism and Epigenetic Unit, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Cancer and Mutagenesis Unit,King Fahd Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, SaudiArabia. Electronic address: malhaseen@kau.edu.sa.(11)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia; Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, TheUniversity of Tokyo, Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan. Electronic address:asami@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp.Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains one of the leading causes of deathworldwide. The complex etiology is attributed to many factors like heredity,cirrhosis, hepatitis infections or the dysregulation of the different molecularpathways. Nevertheless, the current treatment regimens have either severe sideeffects or tumors gradually acquire resistance upon prolonged use. Thus,developing a new selective treatment for HCC is the need of the hour. Manyanticancer agents derived from plants have been evaluated for their cytotoxicity towards many human cancer cell lines. Strigolactones (SLs)-a newly discoveredclass of phytohormones, play a crucial role in the development of plant-root and shoot. Recently, many synthetic analogues of SLs have demonstrated pro-apoptotic effects on different cancer cell lines like prostate, breast, colon and lung. In this study, we tested synthetic SLs analogues on HCC cell line-HepG2 andevaluated their capability to induce cell proliferation inhibition and apoptosis.Primary WST-1 assays, followed by annexin-V/7AAD staining, demonstrated theanti-proliferative effects. The SLs analogues TIT3 and TIT7 were found tosignificantly reduce HepG2 cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent mannerand induce apoptosis. Interestingly, though TIT3 and TIT7 strongly affectedcancer cell proliferation, both compounds showed moderate anti-proliferativeeffect on normal cells. Further, migration of cancer cells was suppressed upontreatment with TIT3 and TIT7 in a wound healing assay. In summary, these findingssuggest that two SLs analogues TIT3 and TIT7 exert selective inhibitory effectson cancer cells most likely through targeting microtubules. SLs analogues couldbe used in future as potential anti-cancer candidates in chemotherapy.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2018.02.016 PMID: 29456109 