6. Nanoscale. 2018 Mar 1;10(9):4432-4441. doi: 10.1039/c7nr06874c.An upconversion nanoplatform with extracellular pH-driven tumor-targeting abilityfor improved photodynamic therapy.Ai F (1), Wang N , Zhang X , Sun T , Zhu Q , Kong W , Wang F , Zhu G .Author information: (1)Department of Chemistry, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon Tong, Hong KongSAR. guangzhu@cityu.edu.hk.Upconversion nanoparticles (UCNPs) are widely utilized for photodynamic therapy(PDT) due to their specific upconverting luminescence that utilizes near infrared(NIR) light to excite photosensitizers (PSs) for PDT. The efficiency ofUCNP-based PDT will be improved if the cancer-targeting property of nanomedicine is enhanced. Herein, we employed the pH low insertion peptide (pHLIP), acancer-targeting moiety, to functionalize an 808 nm excited UCNP-basednanoplatform that has a minimized over-heating effect to perform PDT. pHLIP canbring cargo specifically into cancer cells under an acidic environment, realizingthe effective active-targeting abilities to cancer cells or tumor due toacidosis. The pHLIP-functionalized nanoplatform was assembled and wellcharacterized. The nanoplatform shows an efficient NIR-irradiated PDT effect incancer cells, especially under a slightly acidic condition that mimics the tumor microenvironment, and this effectiveness is attributed to the targetingproperties of pHLIP to cancer cells under acidic conditions that favor the entry of the nanoplatform. Furthermore, the pHLIP-functionalized nanoplatform shows afavorable safety profile in mice with a high maximum tolerated dose (MTD), which may broaden the availability of administration in vivo. The efficient in vivoantitumor activity is achieved through intratumor injection of the nanoplatformfollowed by NIR irradiation on the breast tumor. The nanoparticles are largelyaccumulated in the tumor site, revealing the excellent tumor-targeting propertiesof the pHLIP-functionalized nanoplatform, which ensures efficient PDT in vivo.Moreover, the nanoparticles have a long retention time in the bloodstream,indicating their stability in vivo. Overall, we provide an example of aUCNP-based nanosystem with tumor-targeting properties to perform efficient PDTboth in vitro and in vivo.DOI: 10.1039/c7nr06874c PMID: 29451577 