72. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2018 Feb;244(2):133-144. doi: 10.1620/tjem.244.133.Potential Role of ASC, a Proapoptotic Protein, for Determining the CisplatinSusceptibility of Lung Cancer Cells.Sakaizawa T(1)(2)(3), Matsumura T(2), Fujii C(2)(4), Hida S(2)(5), ToishiM(1)(3), Shiina T(1)(6), Yoshida K(1)(7), Hamanaka K(1), Ito KI(1), TaniguchiS(2)(4)(8).Author information: (1)Division of Breast, Endocrine and Respiratory Surgery, Department of Surgery(II), Shinshu University School of Medicine.(2)Department of Molecular Oncology, Institute of Pathogenesis and DiseasePrevention, Shinshu University Graduate School of Medicine.(3)Department of Chest and Breast Surgery, Nagano Municipal Hospital.(4)Department of Advanced Medicine for Health Promotion, Institute for BiomedicalSciences, Interdisciplinary Cluster for Cutting Edge Research, ShinshuUniversity.(5)Department of Molecular and Cellular Health Science, Graduate School ofPharmaceutical Sciences, Nagoya City University.(6)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Ina Central Hospital.(7)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Suwa Red Cross Hospital.(8)Department of Comprehensive Cancer Therapy, Shinshu University School ofMedicine.Primary lung cancer is the most frequent cause of cancer-related deathsworldwide. Cisplatin has been used as a key drug in the treatment for patientswith lung cancer; however, most of the patients failed to respond to cisplatinwithin several months, and the mechanisms underlying the cisplatin resistancehave not been fully elucidated. Apoptosis-associated speck-like proteincontaining a caspase recruitment domain (ASC) is a key adaptor protein in theformation of inflammasomes. ASC is also involved in apoptotic signaling.Importantly, ASC expression is decreased in lung cancer and various cancers, but its precise function in tumor progression remains unknown. To explore thehitherto unknown role of ASC in lung cancer, we initially searched for lungcancer cell lines with higher expression levels of ASC using Cancer Cell LineEncyclopedia (CCLE) database, thereby identifying the A549 human non-small celllung cancer cell line. Accordingly, with retroviral shRNA, the expression of ASC was forced to decrease in A549 cells. Stable ASC-knockdown cells, thusestablished, showed the increased activities of proliferation, motility, andinvasion, compared with control cells. Importantly, ASC-knockdown cells alsobecame resistant to cisplatin, but not to other anti-cancer agents,5-fluorouracil and paclitaxel. Bcl-2 and phospho-Src levels were increased inASC-knockdown cells. A Bcl-2 inhibitor, ABT-199, induced an apoptotic response inASC-knockdown cells, and dasatinib, a Src inhibitor, blocked cell invasiveness.Thus, ASC may be involved in tumor suppression and cell death via Bcl-2 and pSrc.Targeting Bcl-2 and Src in ASC-downregulated populations of lung cancer mayimprove treatment outcome.DOI: 10.1620/tjem.244.133 PMID: 29459573 