191. Pract Radiat Oncol. 2018 May - Jun;8(3):e109-e116. doi:10.1016/j.prro.2017.10.011. Epub 2018 Feb 13.Deep inspiration breath hold level variability and deformation in locoregionalbreast irradiation.Conroy L(1), Quirk S(2), Watt E(3), Ecclestone G(4), Conway JL(5), OlivottoIA(5), Phan T(5), Smith WL(2).Author information: (1)Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta,Canada; Department of Medical Physics, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, Alberta,Canada. Electronic address: laconroy@ucalgary.ca.(2)Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta,Canada; Department of Medical Physics, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, Alberta,Canada; Division of Radiation Oncology, Department of Oncology, University ofCalgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.(3)Department of Physics & Astronomy, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta,Canada; Department of Medical Physics, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, Alberta,Canada.(4)Department of Radiation Therapy, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, Alberta,Canada.(5)Division of Radiation Oncology, Department of Oncology, University of Calgary,Calgary, Alberta, Canada.PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the dosimetric effect ofbreath hold level variability and deformation on breast, chest wall, internalmammary chain (IMC) nodes, and heart.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Left-sided post-lumpectomy (n = 12) and postmastectomy (n = 3) patients underwent deep inspiration breath hold (DIBH) and exhale breathhold (EBH) computed tomography (CT) scans. Forward-planned locoregional breastplans were created on the DIBH scan. Two effects were modeled assuming no setupuncertainties: residual motion within the gating window and systematicallyshallow breath hold levels (BHLs). Real-time position management (RPM) was usedto monitor BHL at simulation and during treatment. The RPM data were scaled tosimulate BHL variation within symmetric gating window widths of ±1, 3, 5, and 7mm; the dosimetric impact of this motion was simulated in the treatment planning system. Systematically "shallow" BHL errors were modeled using deformable imageregistration to map the patient trajectory from DIBH to EBH (n = 12). Thedeformable vector fields were scaled to produce synthetic CT scans modelingpatient position during breath holds 1, 3, 5, and 7 mm shallower than simulatorBHL. The original treatment plans were applied to the synthetic CTs and dose was recalculated.RESULTS: Acceptable plan quality was maintained for most patients with motionwithin gating windows up to ±7 mm. Patients with shallow median BHLs experienced loss of coverage at simulated gating windows ±5 mm or larger. At systematic 3 mm shallow BHL error, 4/12 patients had clinical target volume IMC V80% < 99%; this increased to 11/12 patients at 5 mm. Change in heart dose from systematic BHLerrors was negligible.CONCLUSIONS: Motion within gating windows has minimal dosimetric impact for most BHL variability; however, loss of IMC coverage can occur even for small gatingwindows when BHLs are systematically shallow. This can be mitigated byrestricting lower BHL tolerances or accounting for known uncertainties inplanning.Copyright © 2017 American Society for Radiation Oncology. Published by ElsevierInc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.prro.2017.10.011 PMID: 29452867 