165. Gastrointest Endosc. 2018 Jun;87(6):1566-1575. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2018.02.008.Epub 2018 Feb 15.Phenotypic heterogeneity of hereditary diffuse gastric cancer: report of a familywith early-onset disease.Gullo I(1), Devezas V(2), Baptista M(2), Garrido L(3), Castedo S(4), Morais R(5),Wen X(6), Rios E(1), Pinheiro J(7), Pinto-Ribeiro I(8), Ferreira RM(8), PretoJ(9), Santos-Antunes J(5), Marques M(5), Campos M(10), Almeida F(11), Espinheira MDC(12), Amil Dias J(12), Figueiredo C(13), Oliveira C(13), Trindade E(12),Carneiro F(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal;Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto,Portugal; Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology, University of Porto,Porto, Portugal; Institute for Research Innovation in Health (i3S), University ofPorto, Porto, Portugal.(2)Department of General Surgery, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal;Department of General Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto,Portugal; Department of General Surgery, High Risk Consultation of DigestiveTumors, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal.(3)Oncogenetic Consultation, Breast Center, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto,Portugal.(4)Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology, University of Porto, Porto,Portugal; Institute for Research Innovation in Health (i3S), University of Porto,Porto, Portugal; Oncogenetic Consultation, Breast Center, Centro Hospitalar SãoJoão, Porto, Portugal; Department of Genetics, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto,Portugal; Department of Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto,Porto, Portugal.(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal.(6)Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology, University of Porto, Porto,Portugal; Institute for Research Innovation in Health (i3S), University of Porto,Porto, Portugal; Department of Pathology, Centro Hospitalar Vila Nova de Gaia,Vila Nova de Gaia, Portugal.(7)Department of Pathology, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal;Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto,Portugal.(8)Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology, University of Porto, Porto,Portugal; Institute for Research Innovation in Health (i3S), University of Porto,Porto, Portugal.(9)Department of General Surgery, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal.(10)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Surgery, Centro HospitalarSão João, Porto, Portugal.(11)Department of Ethics Committee, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal.(12)Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric Gastroenterology Unit, Centro Hospitalar São João, Porto, Portugal.(13)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto,Portugal; Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology, University of Porto,Porto, Portugal; Institute for Research Innovation in Health (i3S), University ofPorto, Porto, Portugal.BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The time course for the development of clinicallysignificant hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC) is unpredictable. Little is known about the progression from preclinical, indolent lesions to widelyinvasive, aggressive phenotypes. Gastroendoscopy often fails to detect earlylesions, and risk-reducing/prophylactic total gastrectomy (PTG) is the onlycurative approach. We present an HDGC family with early-onset disease in whichclinical and histologic findings provided insight into the understanding ofdifferent HDGC phenotypes.METHODS: The proband was diagnosed at age 18 years with widely invasive,metastatic DGC. CDH1 genetic testing identified a pathogenic, germline CDH1variant (c.1901C>T, p.Ala634Val). Thirty family members were tested, and 15 CDH1 carriers were identified.RESULTS: Six family members had PTG, with negative preoperative workup. Theproband's 14-year-old sister is the youngest patient, reported to date, to havePTG after negative preoperative biopsy sampling. Intramucosal HDGC foci weredetected in all PTG specimens (1-33). In contrast to the "indolent" phenotype of these foci, the aggressive DGC from the proband showed pleomorphic cells, absent E-cadherin expression, increased proliferation (Ki-67 index), and activation ofoncogenic events (p53, pSrc and pStat3 overexpression). All family members hadHelicobacter pylori gastritis. Cag-A-positive strains were detected in allspecimens, except in the proband's sister.CONCLUSIONS: HDGC is a heterogeneous disease regarding clinical behavior,endoscopic findings, histopathologic features, and immunophenotypic/molecularprofile. The presence of bizarre, pleomorphic cells in endoscopic biopsyspecimens is suggestive of advanced disease and should prompt clinicalintervention. The involvement of a full multidisciplinary team is essential forthe management of these patients.Copyright © 2018 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2018.02.008 PMID: 29454568 