197. Math Med Biol. 2018 Feb 14. doi: 10.1093/imammb/dqx022. [Epub ahead of print]Simulated ablation for detection of cells impacting paracrine signalling inhistology analysis.Taylor-King JP(1)(2)(3), Baratchart E(2), Dhawan A(4), Coker EA(5), Rye IH(6),Russnes H(6)(7), Chapman SJ(1), Basanta D(2), Marusyk A(8).Author information: (1)Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.(2)Department of Integrated Mathematical Oncology, Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.(3)Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, Department of Biology, ETHZ, Zurich,Switzerland.(4)Department of Oncology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.(5)Cancer Research UK Cancer Therapeutics Unit, The Institute of Cancer Research,London, UK.(6)Department of Genetics, Institute for Cancer Research, Oslo UniversityHospital Radiumhospitalet, Oslo, Norway.(7)Department of Pathology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.(8)Department of Cancer Imaging and Metabolism, Lee Moffitt Cancer Center andResearch Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.Intra-tumour phenotypic heterogeneity limits accuracy of clinical diagnostics andhampers the efficiency of anti-cancer therapies. Dealing with this cellularheterogeneity requires adequate understanding of its sources, which is extremely difficult, as phenotypes of tumour cells integrate hardwired (epi)mutationaldifferences with the dynamic responses to microenvironmental cues. The latercomes in form of both direct physical interactions, as well as inputs fromgradients of secreted signalling molecules. Furthermore, tumour cells can notonly receive microenvironmental cues, but also produce them. Despite highbiological and clinical importance of understanding spatial aspects of paracrine signaling, adequate research tools are largely lacking. Here, a partialdifferential equation (PDE)-based mathematical model is developed that mimics theprocess of cell ablation. This model suggests how each cell might contribute tothe microenvironment by either absorbing or secreting diffusible factors, andquantifies the extent to which observed intensities can be explained viadiffusion-mediated signalling. The model allows for the separation of phenotypic responses to signalling gradients within tumour microenvironments from thecombined influence of responses mediated by direct physical contact and hardwired(epi)genetic differences. The method is applied to a multi-channelimmunofluorescence in situ hybridisation (iFISH)-stained breast cancerhistological specimen, and correlations are investigated between: HER2 geneamplification, HER2 protein expression and cell interaction with the diffusiblemicroenvironment. This approach allows partial deconvolution of the complexinputs that shape phenotypic heterogeneity of tumour cells and identifies cellsthat significantly impact gradients of signalling molecules.© The Author(s) 2018. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of theInstitute of Mathematics and its Applications.DOI: 10.1093/imammb/dqx022 PMID: 29452382 