Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.153. Med Image Anal. 2018 Apr;45:121-133. doi: 10.1016/j.media.2017.12.002. Epub 2018 Jan 31.DeepMitosis: Mitosis detection via deep detection, verification and segmentation networks.Li C(1), Wang X(2), Liu W(3), Latecki LJ(4).Author information: (1)School of Electronics Information and Communications, Huazhong University ofScience and Technology, Wuhan, PR China. Electronic address: chaol@hust.edu.cn.(2)School of Electronics Information and Communications, Huazhong University ofScience and Technology, Wuhan, PR China. Electronic address: xgwang@hust.edu.cn.(3)School of Electronics Information and Communications, Huazhong University ofScience and Technology, Wuhan, PR China. Electronic address: liuwy@hust.edu.cn.(4)CIS Department, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, USA. Electronicaddress: latecki@temple.edu.Mitotic count is a critical predictor of tumor aggressiveness in the breastcancer diagnosis. Nowadays mitosis counting is mainly performed by pathologistsmanually, which is extremely arduous and time-consuming. In this paper, wepropose an accurate method for detecting the mitotic cells from histopathologicalslides using a novel multi-stage deep learning framework. Our method consists of a deep segmentation network for generating mitosis region when only a weak label is given (i.e., only the centroid pixel of mitosis is annotated), an elaborately designed deep detection network for localizing mitosis by using contextual regioninformation, and a deep verification network for improving detection accuracy by removing false positives. We validate the proposed deep learning method on twowidely used Mitosis Detection in Breast Cancer Histological Images (MITOSIS)datasets. Experimental results show that we can achieve the highest F-score onthe MITOSIS dataset from ICPR 2012 grand challenge merely using the deepdetection network. For the ICPR 2014 MITOSIS dataset that only provides thecentroid location of mitosis, we employ the segmentation model to estimate thebounding box annotation for training the deep detection network. We also applythe verification model to eliminate some false positives produced from thedetection model. By fusing scores of the detection and verification models, weachieve the state-of-the-art results. Moreover, our method is very fast with GPU computing, which makes it feasible for clinical practice.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.media.2017.12.002 PMID: 29455111 