82. Can Assoc Radiol J. 2018 Feb;69(1):16-23. doi: 10.1016/j.carj.2017.09.002.Clinical Image Quality and Sensitivity in an Organized Mammography ScreeningProgram.Théberge I(1), Guertin MH(2), Vandal N(2), Daigle JM(2), Dufresne MP(3), WaddenN(4), Shumak R(5), Samson C(6), Langlois A(2), Larocque I(2), Perron L(7),Pelletier É(2), Brisson J(8).Author information: (1)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, Quebec City, Québec, Canada;Département de médecine sociale et préventive, Faculté de Médecine, UniversitéLaval, Quebec City, Québec, Canada. Electronic address:isabelle.theberge@inspq.qc.ca.(2)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, Quebec City, Québec, Canada.(3)Département de Radiologie, Hôpital Maisonneuve-Rosemont, Montréal, Québec,Canada.(4)Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University, St John's, Newfoundland, Canada.(5)Department of Prevention and Cancer Control, Cancer Care Ontario, Toronto,Ontario, Canada.(6)Hôpital du Sacré-Cœur de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada; Département deradiologie, radio-oncologie et médecine nucléaire, Faculté de Médecine,Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada.(7)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, Quebec City, Québec, Canada;Département de médecine sociale et préventive, Faculté de Médecine, UniversitéLaval, Quebec City, Québec, Canada; Département de santé publique et médecinepréventive, CHU de Québec-Université Laval, Hôpital Saint-François d'Assise,Quebec City, Québec, Canada.(8)Institut national de santé publique du Québec, Quebec City, Québec, Canada;Département de médecine sociale et préventive, Faculté de Médecine, UniversitéLaval, Quebec City, Québec, Canada; Axe Oncologie, Centre de Recherche du CHU de Québec, Quebec City, Québec, Canada.PURPOSE: The study sought to examine the association between clinical imagequality of mammograms and screening sensitivity.METHODS: Four radiologists evaluated the clinical image quality of 374 invasivescreen-detected cancers and 356 invasive interval breast cancers for whichquality evaluation of screening mammograms could be assessed from cancersdiagnosed among participants in the Quebec Breast Cancer Screening Program in2007. Quality evaluation was based on the Canadian Association of Radiologistsaccreditation criteria, which are similar to those of the American College ofRadiology. The association between clinical quality and screening sensitivity wasassessed by logistic regression. Adjusted sensitivity and adjusted sensitivityratios were obtained through marginal standardization. No institutional reviewboard approval was required.RESULTS: A proportion of 28% (206 of 730) of screening mammograms had loweroverall quality for the majority of assessments. Positioning was the qualityattribute that was the most frequently deficient. The 2-year screeningsensitivity reached 68%. Sensitivity of screening was not statisticallyassociated with the overall quality (ratio of 2-year sensitivity = 1.03; 95%confidence interval: 0.93-1.15) or with any quality attributes (positioning,exposure, compression, sharpness, artifacts, contrast). Results were similar for the 1-year sensitivity.CONCLUSIONS: Although not all mammograms in the Quebec screening program met the optimum quality required by the Canadian Association of Radiologists or American College of Radiology accreditation, the screening mammograms produced in thispopulation-based organized screening program reached a high enough level ofquality so that the remaining variation in quality is too little to impairscreening sensitivity.Copyright © 2017 Canadian Association of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Inc.All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.carj.2017.09.002 PMID: 29458953  [Indexed for MEDLINE]