15. Mol Cell Biochem. 2018 Feb 15. doi: 10.1007/s11010-018-3332-x. [Epub ahead ofprint]The endogenous subcellular localisations of the long chain fatty acid-activating enzymes ACSL3 and ACSL4 in sarcoma and breast cancer cells.Radif Y(1), Ndiaye H(1), Kalantzi V(1), Jacobs R(1), Hall A(2), Minogue S(1),Waugh MG(3).Author information: (1)Lipid & Membrane Biology Group, University College London, Floor U3, RoyalFree Hospital Campus, Rowland Hill Street, London, NW3 2PF, UK.(2)Sheila Sherlock Liver Centre, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust and UCLInstitute for Liver and Digestive Health, University College London, London, UK.(3)Lipid & Membrane Biology Group, University College London, Floor U3, RoyalFree Hospital Campus, Rowland Hill Street, London, NW3 2PF, UK.m.waugh@ucl.ac.uk.Fatty acid uptake and metabolism are often dysregulated in cancer cells. Fattyacid activation is a critical step that allows these biomolecules to entercellular metabolic pathways such as mitochondrial β-oxidation for ATP generation or the lipogenic routes that generate bioactive lipids such as the inositolphospholipids. Fatty acid activation by the addition of coenzyme A is catalysedby a family of enzymes called the acyl CoA synthetase ligases (ACSL).Furthermore, enhanced expression of particular ACSL isoforms, such as ACSL4, is afeature of some more aggressive cancers and may contribute to the oncogenicphenotype. This study focuses on ACSL3 and ACSL4, closely related structuralhomologues that preferentially activate palmitate and arachidonate fatty acids,respectively. In this study, immunohistochemical screening of multiple softtissue tumour arrays revealed that ACSL3 and ACSL4 were highly, butdifferentially, expressed in a subset of leiomyosarcomas, fibrosarcomas andrhabdomyosarcomas, with consistent cytoplasmic and granular stainings of tumourcells. The intracellular localisations of endogenously expressed ACSL3 and ACSL4 were further investigated by detailed subcellular fractionation analyses ofHT1080 fibrosarcoma and MCF-7 breast cancer cells. ACSL3 distribution closelyoverlapped with proteins involved in trafficking from the trans-Golgi network andendosomes. In contrast, the ACSL4 localisation pattern more closely followed thatof calnexin which is an  endoplasmic reticulum resident chaperone. Confocalimmunofluorescence imaging of MCF-7 cells confirmed the intracellularlocalisations of both enzymes. These observations reveal new informationregarding the compartmentation of fatty acid metabolism in cancer cells.DOI: 10.1007/s11010-018-3332-x PMID: 29450800 