76. BMJ Open. 2018 Feb 19;8(2):e014530. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014530.Impact of dietary patterns and the main food groups on mortality and recurrencein cancer survivors: a systematic review of current epidemiological literature.Jochems SHJ(1)(2), Van Osch FHM(1)(2), Bryan RT(1), Wesselius A(2), van Schooten FJ(2), Cheng KK(3), Zeegers MP(2)(4).Author information: (1)Institute of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, University of Birmingham,Birmingham, UK.(2)NUTRIM School of Nutrition and Translational Research in Metabolism,Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.(3)Institute of Applied Health Research, Public Health, Epidemiology andBiostatistics, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.(4)CAPHRI School for Public Health and Primary Care, Maastricht University,Maastricht, The Netherlands.OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there is an association between dietarypatterns/indices and foods from the main food groups (highest vs lowest intakes) prior to or after cancer diagnosis and mortality and cancer recurrence in cancer survivors.PARTICIPANTS: Survivors of common cancers with a 10-year survival rate of ≥50%:bladder, bowel, breast, cervical, kidney, laryngeal, prostate, testicular,uterine cancer, malignant melanoma and (non-)Hodgkin's lymphoma.OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality (overall, cancer-specific, from other causes) andcancer recurrence.INFORMATION SOURCES: PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library were searched frominception to April 2017. Additional studies were identified by searchingreference lists. Two authors independently screened titles and abstracts,assessed study quality and extracted the data.RESULTS: A total of 38 studies were included. The risk of bias was rated low for the included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and moderate for the cohortstudies. The quality of evidence was assessed with the Grading ofRecommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluations (GRADE) approach and wasrated moderate (RCTs), and (very)low (cohort studies). Reducing the amount of fatafter diagnosis appears to decrease the risk of breast cancer recurrence.Adherence to a high-quality diet and prudent diet after diagnosis appears todecrease the risk of death from other causes (and overall mortality forhigh-quality diet) in breast cancer survivors. Adherence to a Western diet,before and after diagnosis, appears to increase the risk of overall mortality anddeath from other causes among breast cancer survivors. Evidence from studiesamong other cancer survivors was too limited or could not be identified.CONCLUSION: For many cancer survivors, there is little evidence to date toindicate that particular dietary behaviours influence outcomes with regard torecurrence and mortality. Notwithstanding, limited evidence suggests that alow-fat diet, a high-quality diet and a prudent diet are beneficial for breastcancer survivors, while a Western diet is detrimental for breast cancersurvivors.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2017. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2016-014530 PMCID: PMC5857700PMID: 29459359 