173. Neurosurg Rev. 2018 Feb 17. doi: 10.1007/s10143-018-0953-1. [Epub ahead of print]Reproductive epidemiology of glial tumors may reveal novel treatments: high-dose progestins or progesterone antagonists as endocrino-immune modifiers againstglioma.Altinoz MA(1)(2)(3), Ozpinar A(4), Elmaci I(5)(6).Author information: (1)Neuroacademy Group, Istanbul, Turkey. maltinoz@gmail.com.(2)Department of Psychiatry, Maastricht University, Amsterdam, Holland, TheNetherlands. maltinoz@gmail.com.(3), Istanbul, Turkey. maltinoz@gmail.com.(4)Acibadem University, Istanbul, Turkey.(5)Neuroacademy Group, Istanbul, Turkey.(6)Department Head of Neurosurgery, Memorial University, Istanbul, Turkey.Female gender, contraceptives, and menopausal hormone replacement treatmentscontaining progesterone analogues associate with higher risk of meningiomas yetwith lower risk of gliomas. Progesterone receptor (PR) expression andmifepristone treatment was highly discussed for meningiomas. However, much lessis known in regard to progesterone actions in gliomas despite PR expressionstrongly correlates with their grade. Meningiomas and gliomas may grow fasterduring gestation; but paradoxically, parousity reduces lifetime risk of gliomaswhich can be explained with dichotomous cell growth-stimulating and inhibitoryactions of progesterone at low versus high levels. Progesterone levels gradually increase in gestation up to 200-fold and the incidence of highly angiogenic braintumors decreases in the last trimester. Indeed, progesterone stimulates glialtumor cell growth at low doses (10 nM) while induces cell kill at higher doses.During gestation, some immune pathways are activated to protect the mother andthe fetus against microbial pathogens. In parallel, high-dose medroxyprogesteroneacetate (MPA) used in treatment of endometrial carcinoma decreases tumoralexpression of PR-B and increases infiltration of cytotoxic T lymphocytes andnatural killer cells. MPA also synergies with IL-2 in clinical treatment of renalcancer. In both glioma and meningioma, the dominant cytosolic PR is PR-B whichincreases cell growth, while PR-A limits cell growth. This seems also paradoxicalat the first glance due to opposite behavior of these tumors in diverse endocrineconditions. High-dose progestins may inhibit brain tumor growth by downregulatingPR-B, yet the dosage thresholds may differ between glial and meningeal tumors dueto higher total PR expression in meningiomas. Supporting this proposal, certainprogestins were reported to stimulate meningioma growth in anecdotal reports, butsame agents at much higher doses reduced meningioma cell proliferation in pilotclinical studies. PR antagonist mifepristone reduced meningioma growth in someclinical studies, but lacked efficacy in others. In fact, mifepristone also haspartial PR agonist efficacy and acts in synergy with MPA to block EC growth.Hence, a similar mechanism of receptor downregulation may also account formifepristone. Both MPA and mifepristone also harbor myeloprotective featuresagainst chemotherapy. Ulipristal is another contraceptive PR antagonist andexerts promising anticancer activity on drug-resistant ovarian cancer andBRCA1-mutant breast cancer cells, which can be tested in animal glioblastomamodels. We propose that progestins strongly deserve to be investigated inexperimental models of glioblastoma alone and in combination withimmunostimulating agents.DOI: 10.1007/s10143-018-0953-1 PMID: 29453736 