83. Complement Ther Med. 2018 Feb;36:73-81. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2017.11.023. Epub2017 Dec 1.Effects of combined and resistance training on the inflammatory profile in breastcancer survivors: A systematic review.de Jesus Leite MAF(1), Puga GM(2), Arantes FJ(3), Oliveira CJF(4), Cunha LM(5),Bortolini MJS(6), Penha-Silva N(7).Author information: (1)Institute of Genetics and Biochemistry, Federal University of Uberlandia,Uberlandia, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: marcoferreiraleite@hotmail.com.(2)Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy, Federal University ofUberlandia, Uberlandia, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: gmpuga@gmail.com.(3)Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Federal University of Uberlandia,Uberlandia, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: franciel_arantes@hotmail.com.(4)Institute of Biological and Natural Sciences, Federal University of Triângulo Mineiro, Uberaba, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: carlo@icbn.uftm.edu.br.(5)Institute of Genetics and Biochemistry, Federal University of Uberlandia,Uberlandia, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: lukzcunha@hotmail.com.(6)Health and Sports Sciences Center, Federal University of Acre, Rio Branco, AC,Brazil. Electronic address: bortolinimjs@gmail.com.(7)Institute of Genetics and Biochemistry, Federal University of Uberlandia,Uberlandia, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: nspenha@ufu.br.OBJECTIVE: The present systematic review aimed to verify the effect of resistanceand combined training on the inflammatory profile of breast cancer survivors.DESIGN: The searches were made on the platforms PsycINFO, PubMed, Cochrane,Science Direct and Scopus, from 1996 to 2017, using the keywords: cancersurvivors, cancer treatment, cancer patients, breast cancer, inflammation,inflammatory profile, immune function, resistance training, strength training,weight training, physical activity, concurrent training and combined training.References of selected articles were also considered. Seven studies fulfilled thecriteria adopted for analysis.RESULTS: None of these studies have shown reduced inflammatory markers in breast cancer survivors undergoing combined or isolated resistance training.CONCLUSIONS: It is not yet possible to conclude which resistance and/orcombination training protocol is capable of improving the short-term inflammatoryprofile in this population. Future studies should seek to establish howstructural training variables (intensity, volume, density, intra- andinter-series recovery, among others) act on anti-inflammatory processes in breastcancer survivors.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2017.11.023 PMID: 29458936 