198. Carcinogenesis. 2018 Apr 5;39(4):601-613. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgy023.Extra-virgin olive oil contains a metabolo-epigenetic inhibitor of cancer stemcells.Corominas-Faja B(1)(2), Cuyàs E(1)(2), Lozano-Sánchez J(3)(4), Cufí S(2), VerduraS(1)(2), Fernández-Arroyo S(5)(6), Borrás-Linares I(4), Martin-Castillo B(7),Martin ÁG(8), Lupu R(9)(10), Nonell-Canals A(11), Sanchez-Martinez M(11), MicolV(12)(13), Joven J(5)(6), Segura-Carretero A(3)(4), Menendez JA(1)(2)(14).Author information: (1)Program Against Cancer Therapeutic Resistance (ProCURE), Metabolism and CancerGroup, Catalan Institute of Oncology, Girona, Spain.(2)Molecular Oncology Group, Girona Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBGI),Girona, Spain.(3)Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, University ofGranada, Granada, Spain.(4)Research and Development Functional Food Centre (CIDAF), PTS Granada, Granada,Spain.(5)Unitat de Recerca Biomèdica, Hospital Universitari Sant Joan, Institutd'Investigació Sanitària Pere Virgili, Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Reus, Spain.(6)The Campus of International Excellence Southern Catalonia, Tarragona, Spain.(7)Unit of Clinical Research, Catalan Institute of Oncology, Girona, Spain.(8)StemTek Therapeutics, Bilbao, Spain.(9)Division of Experimental Pathology, Department of Laboratory Medicine andPathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(10)Mayo Clinic Cancer Center, Rochester MN, USA.(11)Mind the Byte, Barcelona, Spain.(12)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular (IBMC), Miguel Hernández University(UMH), Elche, Alicante, Spain.(13)CIBER, Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y la Nutrición, CIBERobn, Instituto deSalud Carlos III (CB12/03/30038), Madrid, Spain.(14)Metabostem, Barcelona, Spain.Targeting tumor-initiating, drug-resistant populations of cancer stem cells (CSC)with phytochemicals is a novel paradigm for cancer prevention and treatment. Weherein employed a phenotypic drug discovery approach coupled tomechanism-of-action profiling and target deconvolution to identify phenoliccomponents of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) capable of suppressing the functionaltraits of CSC in breast cancer (BC). In vitro screening revealed that thesecoiridoid decarboxymethyl oleuropein aglycone (DOA) could selectively targetsubpopulations of epithelial-like, aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH)-positive andmesenchymal-like, CD44+CD24-/low CSC. DOA could potently block the formation ofmulticellular tumorspheres generated from single-founder stem-like cells in apanel of genetically diverse BC models. Pretreatment of BC populations withnoncytotoxic doses of DOA dramatically reduced subsequent tumor-forming capacity in vivo. Mice orthotopically injected with CSC-enriched BC-cell populationspretreated with DOA remained tumor-free for several months. Phenotypemicroarray-based screening pointed to a synergistic interaction of DOA with themTOR inhibitor rapamycin and the DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor5-azacytidine. In silico computational studies indicated that DOA binds andinhibits the ATP-binding kinase domain site of mTOR and theS-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM) cofactor-binding pocket of DNMTs. FRET-basedZ-LYTE™ and AlphaScreen-based in vitro assays confirmed the ability of DOA tofunction as an ATP-competitive mTOR inhibitor and to block the SAM-dependentmethylation activity of DNMTs. Our systematic in vitro, in vivo and in silicoapproaches establish the phenol-conjugated oleoside DOA as a dual mTOR/DNMTinhibitor naturally occurring in EVOO that functionally suppresses CSC-likestates responsible for maintaining tumor-initiating cell properties within BCpopulations.DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgy023 PMCID: PMC5888987PMID: 29452350 