198. Mol Oncol. 2018 Feb 21. doi: 10.1002/1878-0261.12181. [Epub ahead of print]Inferences of individual drug responses across diverse cancer types using a novelcompeting endogenous RNA network.Zhang Y(1), Li X(1), Zhou D(1), Zhi H(1), Wang P(1), Gao Y(1), Guo M(1), YueM(1), Wang Y(1), Shen W(1), Ning S(1), Li Y(1)(2), Li X(1).Author information: (1)College of Bioinformatics Science and Technology, Harbin Medical University,China.(2)Bioinformatics Center, Key Lab of Systems Biology, Shanghai Institutes forBiological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.Differences in individual drug responses are an obstacle to progression in cancertreatment, and predicting responses would help to plan treatment. Theaccumulation of cancer molecular profiling and drug response data providesopportunities and challenges to identify novel molecular signatures andmechanisms of tumor responsiveness to drugs. This study evaluated drug responses with a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) system that depended on competitionbetween diverse RNA species. We identified drug response-related ceRNA (DRCEs) bycombining the sequence and expression data of long noncoding RNA (lncRNA),microRNA (miRNA), and messenger RNA (mRNA), and the survival data of cancerpatients treated with drugs. We constructed a patient-drug two-layer integratednetwork and used a linear weighting method to predict individual drug responses. DRCEs were found to be significantly enriched in known cancer and drug-associateddata resources, involved in biological processes known to mediate drug responses,and correlated to drug activity in cancer cell lines. The dysregulation of DRCEexpression influenced drug response-associated functions and pathways, suggestingDRCEs as potential therapeutic targets affecting drug responses. A further casestudy in breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA) found that DRCE expression wasconsistent with the drug response pattern and the aberrant expression of the two NEAT1-related DRCEs may lead to poor response to tamoxifen therapy for patientswith TP53 mutations. In summary, this study provides a framework for ceRNA-based evaluation of clinical drug responses across multiple cancer types. Understandingthe underlying molecular mechanisms of drug responses will allow improvedresponse to chemotherapy and outcomes of cancer treatment.© 2018 The Authors. Published by FEBS Press and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/1878-0261.12181 PMID: 29464864 