170. Lab Invest. 2018 Apr;98(4):449-461. doi: 10.1038/s41374-017-0017-0. Epub 2018 Feb21.Adenylosuccinate lyase enhances aggressiveness of endometrial cancer byincreasing killer cell lectin-like receptor C3 expression by fumarate.Park H(1), Ohshima K(1), Nojima S(1), Tahara S(1), Kurashige M(1), Hori Y(1),Okuzaki D(2), Wada N(1), Ikeda JI(1), Morii E(3).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka, Japan.(2)Genome Information Research Center, Research Institute for Microbial Diseases,Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan.(3)Department of Pathology, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka, Japan. morii@molpath.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.Adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) is an enzyme that plays important roles in de novo purine synthesis. Although ADSL was reported to be upregulated in variousmalignancies, such as colorectal, breast, and prostate cancer, as well asgliomas, the mechanism by which elevated ADSL expression contributes to cancerhas not been elucidated. We previously performed a shotgun proteomics analysis tocharacterize specific proteins associated with the properties of the aldehydedehydrogenase (ALDH)-high cell population, which was reported to be involved intumorigenic potential, and showed that ADSL expression is upregulated in theALDH-high population of endometrial cancer. Here, we showed that ADSL is involvedin endometrial cancer aggressiveness by regulating expression of killer celllectin-like receptor C3 (KLRC3), which is a receptor expressed on natural killer cells. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that ADSL expression increased asendometrioid carcinoma specimens became more poorly differentiated and higherdegree of primary tumor progression. Knockdown of ADSL in endometrial cancercells decreased cell proliferation, migration, and invasive capability, andcaused the cells to adopt a more rounded shape. DNA microarray analysis andquantitative real-time PCR showed that KLRC3 expression was decreased in ADSLknockdown cells. Knockdown of KLRC3 in endometrial cancer cells resulted in thesame phenotype as knockdown of ADSL. Moreover, fumarate, which could be produced by ADSL and was recently shown to be an oncometabolite, recovered KLRC3expression in ADSL knockdown cells, suggesting that fumarate produced by ADSLcould regulate KLRC3 expression. Our findings indicate that ADSL enhances cellproliferation, migration, and invasive capability through regulation of KLRC3expression by fumarate.DOI: 10.1038/s41374-017-0017-0 PMID: 29467457 