50. Psychooncology. 2018 Jun;27(6):1480-1489. doi: 10.1002/pon.4674. Epub 2018 Mar15.Experiences and unmet needs of lesbian, gay, and bisexual people with cancercare: A systematic review and meta-synthesis.Lisy K(1)(2), Peters MDJ(3), Schofield P(1)(4)(5), Jefford M(1)(2)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Cancer Experiences Research, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre,Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.(2)Australian Cancer Survivorship Centre, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre,Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.(3)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Division of Health Sciences, The Universityof South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.(4)Department of Psychology, Swinburne University, Melbourne, Victoria,Australia.(5)Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, The University of Melbourne,Parkville, Victoria, Australia.OBJECTIVES: To explore the cancer care experiences and unmet needs of people who identify as a sexual or gender minority.METHODS: A qualitative systematic review and meta-synthesis was undertaken based on a registered protocol. Following literature searching and study selection,study quality was examined by using the Critical Appraisal Skill ProgrammeChecklist. Qualitative data were extracted verbatim from included studies andsynthesized by using thematic analysis.RESULTS: Fifteen studies that included lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) peopleliving with or beyond cancer were included in the review. Studies includinggender minorities were not identified. Most of the study participants were sexualminority women with breast cancer or sexual minority men with prostate cancer.Meta-synthesis of 106 individual findings generated 6 overarching themespertaining to sexual orientation disclosure, experiences and fear of homophobia, positive and negative health-care professional behaviors, heterocentric systemsand care, inadequacy of available support groups, and unmet needs forpatient-centered care and LGB-specific information. Lesbian, gay, and bisexualpeople often reported feelings of anxiety, invisibility, isolation, andfrustration throughout the cancer care continuum.CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of the experiences of LGB people with cancer care showsthat LGB people face numerous challenges due to their sexual orientation andreceive care that does not adequately address their needs. Training and educationof health-care professionals are strongly recommended to address some of thesechallenges and practice gaps. Culturally appropriate care includes avoidingheterosexual assumptions, use of inclusive language, the provision of tailoredinformation, and involving partners in care.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4674 PMID: 29462496 