Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST No potential conflicts ofinterest were disclosed.21. Oncotarget. 2017 Dec 31;9(5):5716-5735. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.23788.eCollection 2018 Jan 19.The protein kinase SIK downregulates the polarity protein Par3.Vanlandewijck M(1)(2), Dadras MS(1)(3), Lomnytska M(4)(5), Mahzabin T(1)(6), Lee Miller M(7)(8), Busch C(9), Brunak S(7), Heldin CH(1)(3), Moustakas A(1)(3).Author information: (1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Science for Life Laboratory, UppsalaUniversity, Uppsala, Sweden.(2)Integrated Cardio Metabolic Center, Novum, Karolinska Institute, Huddinge,Sweden.(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Science for LifeLaboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.(4)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Karolinska Biomics Center, KarolinskaInstitute, Stockholm, Sweden.(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Academic Uppsala Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.(6)School of Anatomy, Physiology and Human Biology, The University of WesternAustralia, Crawley, WA, Australia.(7)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, University of Copenhagen,Copenhagen, Denmark.(8)Cancer Research UK, Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Li Ka Shing Center, Cambridge, UK.(9)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Rudbeck Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.The multifunctional cytokine transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) controlshomeostasis and disease during embryonic and adult life. TGFβ alters epithelialcell differentiation by inducing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), whichinvolves downregulation of several cell-cell junctional constituents. Little isunderstood about the mechanism of tight junction disassembly by TGFβ. We foundthat one of the newly identified gene targets of TGFβ, encoding theserine/threonine kinase salt-inducible kinase 1 (SIK), controls tight junctiondynamics. We provide bioinformatic and biochemical evidence that SIK canpotentially phosphorylate the polarity complex protein Par3, an establishedregulator of tight junction assembly. SIK associates with Par3, and inducesdegradation of Par3 that can be prevented by proteasomal and lysosomal inhibitionor by mutation of Ser885, a putative phosphorylation site on Par3. Functionally, this mechanism impacts on tight junction downregulation. Furthermore, SIKcontributes to the loss of epithelial polarity and examination of advanced andinvasive human cancers of diverse origin displayed high levels of SIK expression and a corresponding low expression of Par3 protein. High SIK mRNA expression alsocorrelates with lower chance for survival in various carcinomas. In specifichuman breast cancer samples, aneuploidy of tumor cells best correlated withcytoplasmic SIK distribution, and SIK expression correlated with TGFβ/Smadsignaling activity and low or undetectable expression of Par3. Our model suggeststhat SIK can act directly on the polarity protein Par3 to regulate tight junctionassembly.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.23788 PMCID: PMC5814169PMID: 29464029 