131. J Gynecol Oncol. 2018 Mar;29(2):e31. doi: 10.3802/jgo.2018.29.e31.Major clinical research advances in gynecologic cancer in 2017.Suh DH(1), Kim M(1), Lee KH(2), Eom KY(3), Kjeldsen MK(4), Mirza MR(4), KimJW(5).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Seoul National University BundangHospital, Seongnam, Korea.(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,Korea.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Seoul National University College ofMedicine, Seoul, Korea.(4)Department of Oncology, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital,Copenhagen, Denmark.(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. kjwksh@snu.ac.kr.In 2017, 10 topics were selected as major clinical research advances ingynecologic oncology. For cervical cancer, efficacy and safety analysis resultsof a 9-valent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine and long-term impact of reduced dose of quadrivalent vaccine were updated. Brief introduction of KEYNOTE trialsof pembrolizumab, a monoclonal antibody that blocks the interaction betweenprogrammed death (PD)-1 and its ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, followed. Tailoredsurveillance programs for gynecologic cancer related with Lynch syndrome andupdate on sentinel lymph node mapping were reviewed for uterine corpus cancer.For ovarian cancer, 5 topics were selected including poly(ADP-ribose) polymerasesinhibitors and immunotherapy. The other potential practice changers covered inthis review were lymphadenectomy in advanced disease, secondary cytoreductivesurgery in recurrent disease, weekly dose-dense regimen for first-linechemotherapy, incorporation of bevacizumab maintenance in platinum-sensitiverecurrent disease, and effect of platinum-free interval prolongation. Conflictingopinions of academic societies on periodic pelvic examination were introduced in conjunction with relevant literature review. For the field of radiation oncology,results of 2 big trials, The Postoperative Radiation Therapy in EndometrialCarcinoma-3 and Gynecologic Oncology Group-258, for endometrial cancer and recentadvance in high-dose-rate brachytherapy for cervical cancer were reported. Topicsfor breast cancer covered adjuvant capecitabine after preoperative chemotherapy, adjuvant pertuzumab and trastuzumab in early human epidermal growth factorreceptor 2-positive disease, olaparib for metastatic cancer in patients with agermline BRCA mutation, 20-year risks of recurrence after stopping endocrinetherapy at 5 years, and contemporary hormonal contraception and the risk ofbreast cancer.Copyright © 2018. Asian Society of Gynecologic Oncology, Korean Society ofGynecologic Oncology.DOI: 10.3802/jgo.2018.29.e31 PMCID: PMC5823987PMID: 29468855 