53. PLoS One. 2018 Feb 20;13(2):e0192853. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192853.eCollection 2018.Improving stability of prediction models based on correlated omics data by using network approaches.Tissier R(1)(2), Houwing-Duistermaat J(3), Rodríguez-Girondo M(1).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Statistics and Bioinformatics, Leiden University MedicalCentre, Leiden, The Netherlands.(2)Developmental and Educational Psychology, Universiteit Leiden FaculteitSociale Wetenschappen, Leiden, The Netherlands.(3)Department of Statistics, University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom.Building prediction models based on complex omics datasets such astranscriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics remains a challenge in bioinformaticsand biostatistics. Regularized regression techniques are typically used to dealwith the high dimensionality of these datasets. However, due to the presence ofcorrelation in the datasets, it is difficult to select the best model andapplication of these methods yields unstable results. We propose a novel strategyfor model selection where the obtained models also perform well in terms ofoverall predictability. Several three step approaches are considered, where thesteps are 1) network construction, 2) clustering to empirically derive modules orpathways, and 3) building a prediction model incorporating the information on themodules. For the first step, we use weighted correlation networks and Gaussiangraphical modelling. Identification of groups of features is performed byhierarchical clustering. The grouping information is included in the predictionmodel by using group-based variable selection or group-specific penalization. We compare the performance of our new approaches with standard regularizedregression via simulations. Based on these results we provide recommendations forselecting a strategy for building a prediction model given the specific goal ofthe analysis and the sizes of the datasets. Finally we illustrate the advantages of our approach by application of the methodology to two problems, namelyprediction of body mass index in the DIetary, Lifestyle, and Genetic determinantsof Obesity and Metabolic syndrome study (DILGOM) and prediction of response ofeach breast cancer cell line to treatment with specific drugs using a breastcancer cell lines pharmacogenomics dataset.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192853 PMCID: PMC5819809PMID: 29462177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]