57. Cancer Nurs. 2018 Feb 14. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000000572. [Epub ahead ofprint]Psychometric Performance of the Arabic Versions of the Cancer BehaviorInventory-Brief and the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast.Algamdi MM(1), Hanneman SK.Author information: (1)Author Affiliations: Faculty of Applied Medical Science, Department ofNursing, University of Tabuk, Saudi Arabia (Dr Algamdi); and University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston School of Nursing (Dr Hanneman).BACKGROUND: Valid and reliable instruments in Arabic are needed to measureself-efficacy and quality of life for Arabic patients with cancer.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to test the psychometric performance of the Cancer Behavior Inventory-Brief Arabic (CBI-BA), including participantunderstanding of items, and the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-BreastArabic (FACT-BA).METHODS: Using a cross-sectional design, 438 cancer patients completed theCBI-BA, 30 of whom completed cognitive interviews. A subsample 167 women withbreast cancer also completed the FACT-BA. Internal consistency evidence wasassessed with Cronbach's α and construct validity with principal axis factoring.RESULTS: Internal consistency estimates were acceptable for the total CBI-BA (α =.81) and FACT-BA (α = .88) scales. Exploratory factor analyses showed evidence ofconstruct validity for the CBI-BA; 1 factor was derived, compared with four inthe original English version. Cognitive interviews indicated satisfactory patientunderstanding of CBI-BA items. The Arabic version of the general FACT-Generalscale had 4 factors according to expectation.CONCLUSION: The CBI-BA has adequate psychometric performance for the measurement of self-efficacy for coping with cancer in Arabic patients. The FACT-GeneralArabic has adequate evidence of reliability and validity for the measurement ofquality of life in Arabic women with breast cancer.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The availability of culturally sensitive andpsychometrically sound instruments for Arabic patients diagnosed with cancershould be valuable for healthcare clinicians and researchers to assessself-efficacy for coping with cancer and quality of life.DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000000572 PMID: 29461284 