51. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2018 Feb 15;24(3):510-531. doi: 10.1093/ibd/izx062.Neoplasia and Precursor Lesions of the Female Genital Tract in IBD: Epidemiology,Role of Immunosuppressants, and Clinical Implications.Hazenberg HMJL(1), de Boer NKH(1), Mulder CJJ(1), Mom SH(2), van BodegravenAA(1)(3), Tack Md PhD GJ(1)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, VU University Medical Center,Amsterdam.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, VU University Medical Center,Amsterdam.(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Internal and Intensive CareMedicine (Co-MIK), Zuyderland Medical Center, Heerlen-Sittard-Geleen.(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Medical Center Leeuwarden,Leeuwarden.In this review the risk of breast, ovarian, and endometrial cancer and cervicaland vulvovaginal (pre)malignant abnormalities in patients with inflammatory boweldisease (IBD) with or without immune suppressive treatment will be discussed. So far, this has not been studied thoroughly and large studies taking into accountdiverse potential confounding factors are lacking. IBD per se has not beenassociated with development of cervical cancer, yet patients with Crohn's diseasewho smoke, have a younger age at diagnosis or who use(d) thiopurines might bemore at risk. Other immunosuppressive medication seems not to increase this risk,however, as evidence at this point is incomplete, physician awareness andprevention by lifestyle counseling, HPV vaccination and (intensified) screeningare warranted. The risk for breast, endometrial, ovarian, and vulvovaginal cancerin IBD patients appears to be comparable to the background population, althoughfor breast cancer this may even be decreasedin Crohn's disease specifically.Immunosuppressive medication in general does not seem to alter this risk. Earlierand more frequent screening for breast cancer than currently conducted in generalnationwide screening programs is not recommended at this moment. Currentliterature suggests a much lower overall malignancy recurrence rate in IBDpatients than has been observed previously. More importantly, immune suppressive medication does not appear to increase the recurrence risk. Robust epidemiologic data on female genital tract cancer are needed.DOI: 10.1093/ibd/izx062 PMID: 29462389 