Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AE: Currently conductingresearch sponsored by AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Celltrion, Novartis, Roche. JT:Advisory Boards for Amgen, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Celgene, Chugai,Genentech, Lilly, MSD, Merck Serono, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, Symphogen, Taiho, and Takeda. FCi: Advisory Boards: Merck Serono, Amgen, Roche, Bayer,Lilly, Servier. Research funding: Bayer, Roche, Merck Serono. GP: Honorarium for advisory boards or speakers fee: Roche, Celgene, Shire, Merck, Amgen, Lilly, BMS,Servier, Taiho, Halozyme, Sanofi. PC: Honoraria for consultancy/advisory roleand/or for lectures from: Bayer, Blueprint Medicines, Deciphera Pharmaceuticals, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Nektar Ther., Novartis, Pfizer, PharmaMar. At his institution, his Unit received funds for research from: AmgenDompé, Arog Pharmaceuticals,Bayer, Eisai, Eli Lilly, Daiichi Sankyo Pharma, Epizyme Inc., Novartis,PharmaMar. MS: Conducts research sponsored by Janssen Pharmaceuticals. AdvisoryBoards: BMS, Novartis, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Leo Pharma. Speaker bureau forBMA, Novartis. Travel funding: Novartis, BMS, Astellas, Ipsen. All other authors declare no competing interests related to this paper.12. Oncotarget. 2017 Dec 29;9(5):6463-6477. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.23766.eCollection 2018 Jan 19.Intravesicular epidermal growth factor receptor subject to retrograde traffickingdrives epidermal growth factor-dependent migration.Maisel S(1)(2), Broka D(2), Schroeder J(1)(2)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Cancer Biology Graduate Interdisciplinary Program, University of Arizona,Tucson, AZ, USA.(2)Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.(3)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Arizona, Tucson,AZ, USA.(4)BIO5 Institute, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.The Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) is frequently mutated andoverexpressed in metastatic cancer. Although EGFR is a transmembrane tyrosinekinase localized to the basolateral membrane in normal epithelium, it isfrequently found intracellularly localized in transformed cells. We havepreviously demonstrated the epithelial adaptor protein mucin 1 (MUC1) alterstrafficking of EGFR, inhibiting its degradation and promoting its translocationto the nucleus, where it can directly modulate gene transcription. Here, wedemonstrate that MUC1 promotes the retention of EGF-bound EGFR in Early Endosome Antigen1 (EEA1)-positive vesicles while preventing its trafficking to thelysosome. These events result in the accumulation of endosomal vesicles harboringactive receptor throughout the cell and a reorganization of the actincytoskeleton. EGF-dependent cell migration and filopodia formation is reliantupon this altered trafficking, and can be prevented by blocking retrogradetrafficking. Together, these results indicate that intracellular EGFR may play anessential role in cancer metastasis and a potential mechanism for the failure of therapeutic antibodies in EGFR-driven metastatic breast cancer.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.23766 PMCID: PMC5814225PMID: 29464085 