115. PLoS Comput Biol. 2018 Feb 22;14(2):e1006026. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006026. eCollection 2018 Feb.Association between expression of random gene sets and survival is evident inmultiple cancer types and may be explained by sub-classification.Shimoni Y(1).Author information: (1)IBM Research-Haifa, Haifa, Israel.One of the goals of cancer research is to identify a set of genes that cause orcontrol disease progression. However, although multiple such gene sets werepublished, these are usually in very poor agreement with each other, and very fewof the genes proved to be functional therapeutic targets. Furthermore, recentfindings from a breast cancer gene-expression cohort showed that sets of genesselected randomly can be used to predict survival with a much higher probability than expected. These results imply that many of the genes identified in breastcancer gene expression analysis may not be causal of cancer progression, eventhough they can still be highly predictive of prognosis. We performed a similaranalysis on all the cancer types available in the cancer genome atlas (TCGA),namely, estimating the predictive power of random gene sets for survival. Ourwork shows that most cancer types exhibit the property that random selections of genes are more predictive of survival than expected. In contrast to previouswork, this property is not removed by using a proliferation signature, whichimplies that proliferation may not always be the confounder that drives thisproperty. We suggest one possible solution in the form of data-drivensub-classification to reduce this property significantly. Our results suggestthat the predictive power of random gene sets may be used to identify theexistence of sub-classes in the data, and thus may allow better understanding of patient stratification. Furthermore, by reducing the observed bias this may allowmore direct identification of biologically relevant, and potentially causal,genes.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006026 PMCID: PMC5839591PMID: 29470520  [Indexed for MEDLINE]