86. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2018 Feb;143(4):267-278. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-104456. Epub2018 Feb 22.[Breast Cancer: Diagnostics and Therapy - the Most Important Facts forInternists].[Article in German]Hamann U, Ankel C(#).Author information: (#)Contributed equallyLEARNING OBJECTIVES:  After reviewing this article, the participant should beable to: 1. Understand the epidemiology of breast cancer, its incidence andimpact. 2. Appreciate the importance of early diagnosis and treatment. 3.Understand the concept of comprehensive breast cancer management and itsmultidisciplinarity. 4. Be knowledgeable about the entire process required tomanage breast cancer, since the early diagnosis until the management of nonbreast related conditions derived from the treatment. 5. Position their specialtyand knowledge in the process and know clearly their role and involvement in themanagement of the patients with breast cancer.SUMMARY:  Breast carcinoma accounts for the majority of the malignant diseases inwomen. In Germany has an estimated incidence of 70 000 new cases per year, which is 30 % of all the malignancies in women, predominantly between 45 and 83 yearsold, although it can affect as well younger women and men, the latter, in a very low rate. It is accountable for 17.4 % mortality in the country.The highfrequency and impact of the mammary carcinoma had lead to the establishment andstandardization of screening programs, encompassing self examination, early andregular consultation, sonography and mammography, aimed to the early detectionnot only of primary disease but also in recurrent or relapsing disease, andcontinued following up after treatment. Several treatment strategies and toolshave been developed and are being chosen in accordance to the histology andbiology of the tumor, the patient condition, the social and familiar status, withthe increase of conservation of the mammary gland either by adjuvant orneoadjuvant therapies, with radiotherapy or by breast conserving surgery,improving therefore the quality of living without compromising the disease freesurvival. Next step in the process is the follow up, intended to maintain thepatients the healthiest possible, not only from the malignancy but alsominimizing the effects of the treatment strategies, incorporating lifestyleimproving measures e.g. sports and nutrition, and alternative medicine resources like acupuncture, hence improving the disease free survival rate, the overallsurvival and diminishing the disease related impact yet personal, familiar,social and economical.The aim of this CME is to give a thorough review of thismultifactorial entity, helping the healthcare professional understand thescientific aspects of it and, through comprehensive reading, provide a clearunderstanding of their role and degree of involvement in the breast cancermanagement process.© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-104456 PMID: 29471575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]