99. J Mol Diagn. 2018 May;20(3):279-288. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2018.01.004. Epub 2018Feb 19.Reference Size Matching, Whole-Genome Amplification, and Fluorescent Labeling as a Method for Chromosomal Microarray Analysis of Clinically Actionable Copy NumberAlterations in Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded Tumor Tissue.Gunn SR(1), Govender S(2), Sims CL(2), Khurana A(2), Koo S(2), Scoggin J(2),Moore MW(2), Cotter PD(2).Author information: (1)ResearchDx/PacificDx, Clinical Laboratory, Irvine, California; TargetedGenomics, San Antonio, Texas. Electronic address: sgunn@researchdx.com.(2)ResearchDx/PacificDx, Clinical Laboratory, Irvine, California.Cancer genome copy number alterations (CNAs) assist clinicians in selectingtargeted therapeutics. Solid tumor CNAs are most commonly evaluated informalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue by fluorescence in situhybridization. Although fluorescence in situ hybridization is a sensitive andspecific assay for interrogating preselected genomic regions, it provides noinformation about coexisting clinically significant copy number changes.Chromosomal microarray analysis is an alternative DNA-based method forinterrogating genome-wide CNAs in solid tumors. However, DNA extracted from FFPE tumor tissue produces an essential, yet problematic, sample type. The College of American Pathologists/American Society of Clinical Oncology guidelines foroptimal tumor tissue handling, published in 2007 for breast cancer and in 2016for gastroesophageal adenocarcinomas, are lacking for other solid tumors. Thus,cold ischemia times are seldom monitored in non-breast cancer andnon-gastroesophageal adenocarcinomas, and all tumor biospecimens are affected by chemical fixation. Although intended to preserve specimens for long-term storage,formalin fixation causes loss of genetic information through DNA damage. Herein, we describe a reference size matching, whole-genome amplification, andfluorescent labeling method for FFPE-derived DNA designed to improve chromosomal microarray results from suboptimal nucleic acids and salvage highly degradedsamples. With this technological advance, whole-genome copy number analysis oftumor DNA can be reliably performed in the clinical laboratory for a wide varietyof tissue conditions and tumor types.Copyright © 2018 American Society for Investigative Pathology and the Associationfor Molecular Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2018.01.004 PMID: 29471114 