23. In Vivo. 2018 Mar-Apr;32(2):249-254.The Impact of Exercise Training on Breast Cancer.Siewierska K(1), Malicka I(2), Kobierzycki C(3), Paslawska U(4), Cegielski M(3), Grzegrzolka J(3), Piotrowska A(3), Podhorska-Okolow M(3), Dziegiel P(2)(3),Wozniewski M(2).Author information: (1)Department of Physiotherapy, University School of Physical Education, Wroclaw,Poland katarzyna.siewierska@awf.wroc.pl.(2)Department of Physiotherapy, University School of Physical Education, Wroclaw,Poland.(3)Department of Human Morphology and Embryology, Wroclaw Medical University,Wroclaw, Poland.(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinic of Diseases of Horses, Dogs, andCats, University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Wroclaw, Poland.BACKGROUND/AIM: Physical exercise is increasingly considered by many authors tobe a factor reducing the risk of cancer development and premature cancer-related death. Data indicate higher cure rates and longer times of survival in cancerpatients who regularly exercise.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 50 female Sprague-Dawley rats were used in the experiment. Animals at 1 month of age were intraperitoneally injected withN-methyl-N-nitrosourea. Three months following drug administration, ratsunderwent supervised physical training. The animals were divided into fourgroups: control untrained group and 3 groups trained with different intensities -i.e. low, moderate and high. Routine histopathological examination of tumors was performed and mitotic activity was assessed by immunohistochemical expression of the Ki-67 antigen.RESULTS: Ki-67 antigen expression was observed in all analyzed tumors. Theincrease in Ki-67 antigen expression correlated positively with the increase intraining intensity.CONCLUSION: It can be assumed that low-intensity physical training is safe forpatients with breast cancer. However, moderate- and high-intensity training mayinduce tumor cell proliferation worsening patients' prognosis.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/invivo.11231 PMCID: PMC5905191PMID: 29475906 