Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interestmay be found at the end of this article.74. BMJ Open. 2018 Feb 22;8(2):e018850. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018850.Defining a set of standardised outcome measures for newly diagnosed patients withmultiple myeloma using the Delphi consensus method: the IMPORTA project.Blade J(1), Calleja MÁ(2), Lahuerta JJ(3), Poveda JL(4), de Paz HD(5), LizánL(5)(6).Author information: (1)Hematology Department, Hospital Clinic, Institut d'Investigacions Biomédiques August Pi I Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.(2)Pharmacy Department, Hospital Virgen Macarena, Sevilla, Spain.(3)Hematology Department, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.(4)Pharmacy Department, Hospital Universitario y Politécnico La Fe, Valencia,Spain.(5)Outcomes'10, Castellon, Spain.(6)Medicine Department, University Jaume I, Castellón, Spain.OBJECTIVE: To define a standard set of outcomes and the most appropriateinstruments to measure them for managing newly diagnosed patients with multiplemyeloma (MM).METHODS: A literature review and five discussion groups facilitated the design oftwo-round Delphi questionnaire. Delphi panellists (haematologists, hospitalpharmacists and patients) were identified by the scientific committee, theSpanish Program of Haematology Treatments Foundation, the Spanish Society ofHospital Pharmacies and the Spanish Community of Patients with MM. Panellist'sperception about outcomes' suitability and feasibility of use was assessed on aseven-point Likert scale. Consensus was reached when at least 75% of therespondents reached agreement or disagreement. A scientific committee led theproject.RESULTS: Fifty-one and 45 panellists participated in the first and second Delphi rounds, respectively. Consensus was reached to use overall survival,progression-free survival, minimal residual disease and treatment response toassess survival and disease control. Panellists agreed to measure health-related quality of life, pain, performance status, fatigue, psychosocial status,symptoms, self-perception on body image, sexuality and preferences/satisfaction. However, panellist did not reach consensus about the feasibility of assessing in routine practice psychosocial status, symptoms, self-perception on body image andsexuality. Consensus was reached to collect patient-reported outcomes through theEuropean Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality ofLife Questionnaire (QLQ) Core questionnaire 30 (C30), three items fromEORTC-QLQ-Multiple Myeloma (MY20) and EORTC-QLQ-Breast Cancer (BR23), pain VisualAnalogue Scale, Morisky-Green and ad hoc questions about patients'preferences/satisfaction.CONCLUSIONS: A consensual standard set of outcomes for managing newly diagnosedpatients with MM has been defined. The feasibility of its implementation inroutine practice will be assessed in a future pilot study.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018850 PMCID: PMC5855445PMID: 29472263 