44. PLoS One. 2018 Feb 23;13(2):e0192734. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192734.eCollection 2018.Ultra-fast vitrification of patient-derived circulating tumor cell lines.Sandlin RD(1), Wong KHK(1), Tessier SN(1), Swei A(1), Bookstaver LD(1), AhearnBE(1), Maheswaran S(2), Haber DA(3)(4), Stott SL(5), Toner M(1).Author information: (1)BioMEMS Resource Center, Center for Engineering in Medicine & Department ofSurgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,Massachusetts, United States of America.(2)Cancer Center & Department of Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, HarvardMedical School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.(3)Cancer Center & Department of Medicine, Massachusetts, MA General Hospital,Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.(4)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland, United States ofAmerica.(5)Cancer Center, Department of Medicine & BioMEMS Resource Center, Center forEngineering in Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.Emerging technologies have enabled the isolation and characterization of rarecirculating tumor cells (CTCs) from the blood of metastatic cancer patients. CTCsrepresent a non-invasive opportunity to gain information regarding the primarytumor and recent reports suggest CTCs have value as an indicator of diseasestatus. CTCs are fragile and difficult to expand in vitro, so typically molecularcharacterization must be performed immediately following isolation. To easeexperimental timelines and enable biobanking, cryopreservation methods areneeded. However, extensive cellular heterogeneity and the rarity of CTCscomplicates the optimization of cryopreservation methods based upon cell type,necessitating a standardized protocol. Here, we optimized a previously reportedvitrification protocol to preserve patient-derived CTC cell lines using highlyconductive silica microcapillaries to achieve ultra-fast cooling rates with lowcryoprotectant concentrations. Using this vitrification protocol, five CTC celllines were cooled to cryogenic temperatures. Thawed CTCs exhibited high cellviability and expanded under in vitro cell culture conditions. EpCAM biomarkerexpression was maintained for each CTC cell line. One CTC cell line was selected for molecular characterization, revealing that RNA integrity was maintained afterstorage. A qPCR panel showed no significant difference in thawed CTCs compared tofresh controls. The data presented here suggests vitrification may enable thestandardization of cryopreservation methods for CTCs.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192734 PMCID: PMC5825040PMID: 29474365  [Indexed for MEDLINE]