Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.87. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2018 Feb 20. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djx293. [Epub ahead of print]Internet-Delivered Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia in Breast CancerSurvivors: A Randomized Controlled Trial.Zachariae R(1), Amidi A(1), Damholdt MF(1), Clausen CDR(1), Dahlgaard J(2), Lord H(3), Thorndike FP(4), Ritterband LM(3).Author information: (1)Unit for Psychooncology and Health Psychology, Department of Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital and Department of Psychology, Aarhus University, Aarhus,Denmark.(2)Faculty of Health Sciences, VIA University College, Aarhus, Denmark.(3)Center for Behavioral Health and Technology, Department of Psychiatry andNeurobehavioral Sciences, University of Virginia School of Medicine,Charlottesville, VA.(4)BeHealth Solutions, LLC, Charlottesville, VA.Background: Insomnia is two to three times more prevalent in cancer survivorsthan in the general population, where it is estimated to be 10% to 20%.Cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is the recommended treatmentfor chronic insomnia, but meeting survivor needs remains a challenge.Internet-delivered CBT-I (iCBT-I) has been shown efficacious in otherwise healthyadults. We tested the efficacy of iCBT-I in breast cancer survivors withclinically significant sleep disturbance.Methods: Women from a national sample of Danish breast cancer survivors whoexperienced clinically significant sleep disturbance were randomly allocated toiCBT-I or waitlist control (55:45). The fully automated iCBT-I program consisted of six cores. Online measures of insomnia severity, sleep quality, and fatiguewere collected at baseline, postintervention (nine weeks), and follow-up (15weeks). Online sleep diaries were completed over two-week periods pre- andpostintervention. Intention-to-treat analyses (time × group interactions) wereconducted with mixed linear models and corrected for multiple outcomes. Allstatistical tests were two-sided.Results: A total of 255 women were randomly allocated to iCBT-I (n = 133) orwaitlist control (n = 122). Statistically significant (P ≤ .02) time × groupinteractions were found for all sleep-related outcomes from pre- topostintervention. Effect sizes (Cohen's d) ranged from 0.33 (95% confidenceinterval [CI] = 0.06 to 0.61) for wake after sleep onset to 1.17 (95% CI = 0.87to 1.47) for insomnia severity. Improvements were maintained for outcomesmeasured at follow-up (d = 0.66-1.10).Conclusions: iCBT-I appears to be effective in breast cancer survivors, withadditional benefit in terms of reduced fatigue. This low-cost treatment could be incorporated in cancer rehabilitation programs.DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djx293 PMID: 29471478 