32. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2018 Feb 21. pii: S0168-8227(17)31839-9. doi:10.1016/j.diabres.2018.02.016. [Epub ahead of print]Cancer survivors: An expanding population with an increased cardiometabolic risk.Felicetti F(1), Fortunati N(2), Brignardello E(3).Author information: (1)Transition Unit for Childhood Cancer Survivors, Città della Salute e dellaScienza Hospital, Turin, Italy. Electronic address:ffelicetti@cittadellasalute.to.it.(2)Transition Unit for Childhood Cancer Survivors, Città della Salute e dellaScienza Hospital, Turin, Italy. Electronic address:nfortunati@cittadellasalute.to.it.(3)Transition Unit for Childhood Cancer Survivors, Città della Salute e dellaScienza Hospital, Turin, Italy. Electronic address:ebrignardello@cittadellasalute.to.it.In the last decades the survival rate of patients diagnosed with cancer - both inchildhood and adulthood - significantly improved, leading to a growing number of cancer survivors (CS) within general population. Despite the better survival raterelated to the cancer diagnosis, CS show increased mortality and morbidity ifcompared to non-cancer population, due to the occurrence of health conditionscategorized as late effects of previous anticancer treatments. Cardiovascular(CV) diseases are one of the main responsible for this increased morbidity of CS.Besides the direct injury that both chemotherapy and radiotherapy can produce to CV system, in recent years the role of metabolic syndrome in the pathogenesis of CV diseases in CS is emerging. The relationship between anticancer treatments andthe development of metabolic alterations is crucial to understand and manage the cardiometabolic risk in CS. The aim of this manuscript is to review thepathophysiological and clinical features of CV risk factors in CS, exploring inmore detail certain subgroups of CS (breast cancer, transplanted patients as wellas lymphoma survivors) that show peculiar clinical aspects and are burdened by a greater CV risk.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2018.02.016 PMID: 29475020 