122. Br J Radiol. 2018 Mar 29:20170751. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20170751. [Epub ahead ofprint]Large datasets, logistics, sharing and workflow in screening.Cook TS(1).Author information: (1)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania , Philadelphia, PA ,USA.Cancer screening initiatives exist around the world for different malignancies,most frequently breast, colorectal, and cervical cancer. A number of cancerregistries exist to collect relevant data, but while these data may includeimaging findings, they rarely, if ever, include actual images. Additionally, the data submitted to the registry are usually correlated with eventual cancerdiagnoses and patient outcomes, rather than used with the individual's futurescreenings. Developing screening programs that allow for images to be submittedto a central location in addition to patient meta data and used for comparison tofuture screening exams would be very valuable in increasing access to care andensuring that individuals are effectively screened at appropriate intervals. Itwould also change the way imaging results and additional patient data arecorrelated to eventual outcomes. However, it introduces logistical challengessurrounding secure storage and transmission of data to subsequent screeningsites. In addition, in the absence of standardized protocols for screening,comparing current and prior imaging, especially from different equipment, can be challenging. Implementing a large-scale screening program with an image-enriched screening registry-effectively, an image-enriched electronic screeningrecord-also requires that incentives exist for screening sites, physicians, andpatients to participate; to maximize coverage, participation may have to besupported by government agencies. Workflows will also have to be adjusted tosupport registry participation for all screening patients in an effort to create a large, robust data set that can be used for future screening efforts as well asresearch initiatives.center.DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20170751 PMID: 29470098 