5. Proteomics Clin Appl. 2018 Feb 24:e1700125. doi: 10.1002/prca.201700125. [Epubahead of print]Integrated Multi-Omic Analyses Support Distinguishing Secretory Carcinoma of the Breast from Basal-Like Triple-Negative Breast Cancer.Jin MS(1), Lee H(2), Woo J(3), Choi S(4), Do MS(3), Kim K(4), Song MJ(5), KimY(3), Park IA(5), Han D(6), Ryu HS(5).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Bucheon St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine,Catholic University of Korea, Bucheon, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, SungkyunkwanUniversity School of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Seoul National University College ofMedicine, Seoul, South Korea.(4)Division of Clinical Bioinformatics, Biomedical Research Institute, SeoulNational University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.(5)Department of Pathology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul NationalUniversity College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.(6)Proteomics Core Facility, Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul NationalUniversity Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.PURPOSE: Secretory carcinoma (SC) of the breast is defined as an indolent tumorbut is still categorized into a basal-like triple-negative breast cancer(BL-TNBC) subgroup that generally shows aggressive behavior according to thecurrent classification. Despite the unique clinical behavior of SC, molecularcharacteristics that reflect biological behaviors of SC remain largely unknown.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A combinatorial approach of whole-exome sequencing and mass spectrometry-based in-depth quantitative proteomics to determine the entiremolecular landscape of SC using three SC formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues is employed.RESULTS: Exome sequencing and proteomic analysis of SC identified 419 uniquesomatic mutations and 721 differentially expressed proteins as compared withtriple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), respectively. Several pathways related tocancer metabolism were significantly upregulated in the SC group. Comparativeanalyses with multiple datasets revealed that SC shares genomic mutations andbiological pathways more closely related to hormone receptor-positive breastcancer than BL-TNBC.CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These multi-omic analyses provide evidencethat SC harbors substantially different molecular genomic and proteomiclandscapes compared with BL-TNBC. These results provide an entire spectrum ofin-depth molecular landscapes to support the hypothesis that SC is distinct from BL-TNBC.© 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.DOI: 10.1002/prca.201700125 PMID: 29476606 