109. Clin Transl Oncol. 2018 Feb 22. doi: 10.1007/s12094-018-1835-2. [Epub ahead ofprint]Pleiotropic effects of heparins: does anticoagulant treatment increase survivalin cancer patients?García-Escobar I(1), Beato-Zambrano C(2), Muñoz Langa J(3), Brozos Vázquez E(4), Obispo Portero B(5), Gutiérrez-Abad D(6), Muñoz Martín AJ(7); Cancer andThrombosis Working Group of the Spanish Society of Medical Oncology (SEOM).Author information: (1)Medical Oncology, Hospital General Universitario de Ciudad Real, Ciudad Real, Spain. naxto@hotmail.com.(2)Medical Oncology GU and Breast Cancer Department, Hospital UniversitarioVirgen Macarena, Seville, Spain.(3)Medical Oncology, Hospital Universitario La Fe, Valencia, Spain.(4)Medical Oncology, Hospital Clínico Universitario de Santiago de Compostela,Santiago de Compostela, Spain.(5)Medical Oncology, Hospital Universitario Infanta Leonor, Madrid, Spain.(6)Medical Oncology, Hospital Universitario de Fuenlabrada, Madrid, Spain.(7)Medical Oncology, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, Madrid,Spain.The association between venous thromboembolism (VTE) and cancer has beenrecognized for more than 100 years. Numerous studies have been performed toinvestigate strategies to decrease VTE incidence and to establish whethertreating VTE impacts cancer progression and overall survival. Accordingly, it is important to understand the role of the hemostatic system in tumorigenesis andprogression, as there is abundant evidence associating it with cell survival and proliferation, tumor angiogenesis, invasion, and dissemination, and metastasisformation. In attempts to further the scientific evidence, several studiesexamine survival benefits in cancer patients treated with anticoagulant therapy, specifically treatment with vitamin K antagonists, unfractionated heparin, andlow-molecular-weight heparin. Several studies and meta-analyses have beenconducted with a special focus on brain tumors. However, no definitiveconclusions have been obtained, and more well-designed clinical trials areneeded.DOI: 10.1007/s12094-018-1835-2 PMID: 29470777 