197. Neuropharmacology. 2018 May 1;133:451-461. doi: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.02.013.Physical exercise prevents cognitive impairment by enhancing hippocampalneuroplasticity and mitochondrial function in doxorubicin-induced chemobrain.Park HS(1), Kim CJ(1), Kwak HB(2), No MH(2), Heo JW(2), Kim TW(3).Author information: (1)Department of Physiology, College of Medicine, KyungHee University, Seoul,Republic of Korea.(2)Department of Kinesiology, Art & Sports, InHa University, Incheon, Republic ofKorea.(3)Department of Physiology, College of Medicine, KyungHee University, Seoul,Republic of Korea; Exercise Rehabilitation Research Institute, Department ofExercise & Health Science, SangMyung University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.Electronic address: twkim0806@naver.com.Although chemotherapy increases the survival rate of patients with variouscancers, such treatment can induce acute or long-term cognitive dysfunction aphenomenon known as post-chemotherapy cognitive impairment (PCCI) or"chemobrain." Exercise is known to positively affect brain function. Thus, thepresent study aimed to determine whether symptoms of chemobrain and disruptionsin the neuroplasticity and functioning of hippocampal mitochondria can beprevented or relieved by exercise. Wistar rats were separated into the following groups: control, control plus exercise, chemobrain, and chemobrain plus exercise.For chemobrain induction, 2 mg/kg of doxorubicin (DOX) a widely utilizedchemotherapeutic agent among patients with breast cancer was dissolved in saline and directly injected to the abdomen once every 4 weeks. The exercise groups weresubjected to low-intensity treadmill, 6 days per week for 4 weeks. The Morriswater maze and step-down avoidance tests were conducted to evaluate cognitivefunction, while neuroplasticity and mitochondrial function were assessed in thehippocampus and dentate gyrus. Decreased cognitive function were observed in the chemobrain group, along with decreases in levels of neurogenesis, brain derivedneurotrophic factor (BDNF), tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB), Ca2+ retentionin hippocampus. Rats of the chemobrain group also exhibited an increase inapoptosis, H2O2 emission and permeability transition pore by hippocampalmitochondria. However, exercise attenuated impairments in cognitive function,neuroplasticity, and mitochondrial function induced by DOX treatment. Therefore, the findings of the present study indicate that low-intensity exercise may assistin preventing cognitive dysfunction during or after chemotherapy in patients withvarious cancers, including breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.neuropharm.2018.02.013 PMID: 29477301 