186. Cancer Sci. 2018 Apr;109(4):919-925. doi: 10.1111/cas.13551. Epub 2018 Mar 23.Roles of protein kinase R in cancer: Potential as a therapeutic target.Watanabe T(1), Imamura T(2)(3), Hiasa Y(1).Author information: (1)Department of Gastroenterology and Metabology, Ehime University GraduateSchool of Medicine, Toon, Japan.(2)Department of Molecular Medicine for Pathogenesis, Ehime University GraduateSchool of Medicine, Toon, Ehime, Japan.(3)Translational Research Center, Ehime University Hospital, Toon, Japan.Double-stranded (ds) RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) is a ubiquitouslyexpressed serine/threonine protein kinase. It was initially identified as aninnate immune antiviral protein induced by interferon (IFN) and activated bydsRNA. PKR is recognized as a key executor of antiviral host defense. Moreover,it contributes to inflammation and immune regulation through several signalingpathways. In addition to IFN and dsRNA, PKR is activated by multiple stimuli and regulates various signaling pathways including the mitogen-activated proteinkinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells pathways. PKR was initially thought to be a tumor suppressor as a result of itsability to suppress cell growth and interact with major tumor suppressor genes.However, in several types of malignant disease, such as colon and breast cancers,its role remains controversial. In hepatocellular carcinoma, hepatitis C virus(HCV) is the main cause of liver cancer, and PKR inhibits HCV replication,indicating its role as a tumor suppressor. However, PKR is overexpressed incirrhotic patients, and acts as a tumor promoter through enhancement of cancercell growth by mediating MAPK or signal transducer and activator of transcriptionpathways. Moreover, PKR is reportedly required for the activation ofinflammasomes and influences metabolic disorders. In the present review, weintroduce the multifaceted roles of PKR such as antiviral function, tumor cellgrowth, regulation of inflammatory immune responses, and maintaining metabolichomeostasis; and discuss future perspectives on PKR biology including itspotential as a therapeutic target for liver cancer.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.DOI: 10.1111/cas.13551 PMCID: PMC5891186PMID: 29478262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]