10. J Intern Med. 2018 May;283(5):430-445. doi: 10.1111/joim.12747. Epub 2018 Mar 25.The role of pregnancy, perinatal factors and hormones in maternal cancer risk: a review of the evidence.Troisi R(1), Bjørge T(2)(3), Gissler M(4)(5), Grotmol T(3), Kitahara CM(1),Myrtveit Saether SM(2), Ording AG(6), Sköld C(7), Sørensen HT(6), Trabert B(1),Glimelius I(7)(8).Author information: (1)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Biostatistics, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Rockville, MD, USA.(2)Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen,Bergen, Norway.(3)Cancer Registry of Norway, Oslo, Norway.(4)Information Services Department, National Institute for Health and Welfare(THL), Helsinki, Finland.(5)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of FamilyMedicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.(6)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus,Denmark.(7)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Uppsala University, Uppsala,Sweden.(8)Department of Medicine, Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Karolinska Institute,Stockholm, Sweden.An understanding of the origin of cancer is critical for cancer prevention andtreatment. Complex biological mechanisms promote carcinogenesis, and there isincreasing evidence that pregnancy-related exposures influence foetal growth celldivision and organ functioning and may have a long-lasting impact on health anddisease susceptibility in the mothers and offspring. Nulliparity is anestablished risk factor for breast, ovarian, endometrial and possibly pancreatic cancer, whilst the risk of kidney cancer is elevated in parous compared withnulliparous women. For breast, endometrial and ovarian cancer, each pregnancyprovides an additional risk reduction. The associations of parity with thyroidand colorectal cancers are uncertain. The timing of reproductive events is alsorecognized to be important. Older age at first birth is associated with anincreased risk of breast cancer, and older age at last birth is associated with areduced risk of endometrial cancer. The risks of breast and endometrial cancersincrease with younger age at menarche and older age at menopause. The mechanisms,and hormone profiles, that underlie alterations in maternal cancer risk are notfully understood and may differ by malignancy. Linking health registries andpooling of data in the Nordic countries have provided opportunities to conductepidemiologic research of pregnancy exposures and subsequent cancer. We reviewthe maternal risk of several malignancies, including those with a well-knownhormonal aetiology and those with less established relationships. The tendencyfor women to have fewer pregnancies and at later ages, together with theage-dependent increase in the incidence of most malignancies, is expected toaffect the incidence of pregnancy-associated cancer.© 2018 The Association for the Publication of the Journal of Internal Medicine.DOI: 10.1111/joim.12747 PMID: 29476569 