192. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2018 Apr;157:85-94. doi:10.1016/j.cmpb.2018.01.017. Epub 2018 Jan 31.Simultaneous detection and classification of breast masses in digital mammograms via a deep learning YOLO-based CAD system.Al-Masni MA(1), Al-Antari MA(2), Park JM(3), Gi G(4), Kim TY(5), Rivera P(6),Valarezo E(7), Choi MT(8), Han SM(9), Kim TS(10).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:m.almasani@khu.ac.kr.(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:en.mualshz@khu.ac.kr.(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:jmpark@khu.ac.kr.(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:geon@khu.ac.kr.(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:kty@khu.ac.kr.(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:patoalejor@khu.ac.kr.(7)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:edgivala@khu.ac.kr.(8)School of Mechanical Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: mtchoi@skku.edu.(9)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:smhan@khu.ac.kr.(10)Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Electronics and Information,Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:tskim@khu.ac.kr.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Automatic detection and classification of the masses inmammograms are still a big challenge and play a crucial role to assistradiologists for accurate diagnosis. In this paper, we propose a novelComputer-Aided Diagnosis (CAD) system based on one of the regional deep learning techniques, a ROI-based Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) which is called YouOnly Look Once (YOLO). Although most previous studies only deal withclassification of masses, our proposed YOLO-based CAD system can handle detectionand classification simultaneously in one framework.METHODS: The proposed CAD system contains four main stages: preprocessing ofmammograms, feature extraction utilizing deep convolutional networks, massdetection with confidence, and finally mass classification using Fully Connected Neural Networks (FC-NNs). In this study, we utilized original 600 mammograms fromDigital Database for Screening Mammography (DDSM) and their augmented mammograms of 2,400 with the information of the masses and their types in training andtesting our CAD. The trained YOLO-based CAD system detects the masses and thenclassifies their types into benign or malignant.RESULTS: Our results with five-fold cross validation tests show that the proposedCAD system detects the mass location with an overall accuracy of 99.7%. Thesystem also distinguishes between benign and malignant lesions with an overallaccuracy of 97%.CONCLUSIONS: Our proposed system even works on some challenging breast cancercases where the masses exist over the pectoral muscles or dense regions.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2018.01.017 PMID: 29477437 