77. Phys Med. 2018 Jan;45:12-18. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.11.019. Epub 2017 Dec 19.Robustness of VMAT and 3DCRT plans toward setup errors in radiation therapy oflocally advanced left-sided breast cancer with DIBH.Jensen CA(1), Roa AMA(2), Johansen M(3), Lund JÅ(4), Frengen J(5).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Ålesund Hospital, Ålesund, Norway. Electronic address:christer.jensen@helse-mr.no.(2)Department of Oncology, Ålesund Hospital, Ålesund, Norway. Electronic address:anaaco@ous-hf.no.(3)Department of Oncology, Ålesund Hospital, Ålesund, Norway. Electronic address:Marie.Johansen@helse-mr.no.(4)Department of Medicine and Healthcare, Ålesund Hospital, Ålesund, Norway;Department of Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University ofScience and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. Electronic address:Jo-Asmund.Lund@helse-mr.no.(5)Cancer Clinic, St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim University Hospital, Trondheim,Norway. Electronic address: Jomar.Frengen@stolav.no.PURPOSE: The aim of our study was to evaluate and compare the robustness oftreatment plans produced using the volumetric modulated arc-therapy (VMAT) andthe standard three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3DCRT) techniques byestimating perturbed doses induced by localization offsets for deep inspirationbreath-hold (DIBH) in locally advanced breast cancer radiation therapy.METHODS: Twenty patients with left breast carcinoma requiring radiation therapywere analysed in this planning study. Robust VMAT plans regarding minimum CTVdoses and standard 3DCRT plans were produced, and perturbed doses were calculatedin accordance with localization values from the weekly offline imaging protocol. Offsets from 5 weeks were summed to a perturbed overall treatment plan. Dosecriteria for evaluation were coverage and homogeneity of the target, as well asdoses to organs at risk.RESULTS: VMAT plans resulted in significantly better target coverage compared to 3DCRT, as well as lowered doses to heart and left anterior descending artery,while the perturbed doses were less variable for VMAT than 3DCRT plans.Homogeneity was significantly improved in VMAT plans. The statistical analysistaking all organs into account found that VMAT plans were more robust than 3DCRT to localization offsets (p = .001). The overall mean setup-deviation for theDIBH-patients was less than 2 mm in all directions.CONCLUSIONS: VMAT plans were more robust on average than conventional 3DCRT plansfor DIBH when localization errors were taken into consideration. The combination of robust VMAT planning and DIBH generally improves the homogeneity and targetdoses.Copyright © 2017 Associazione Italiana di Fisica Medica. Published by ElsevierLtd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.11.019 PMID: 29472076 