189. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2018 Apr 2;643:62-71. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2018.02.011. Epub 2018 Mar 15.Resveratrol suppresses migration, invasion and stemness of human breast cancercells by interfering with tumor-stromal cross-talk.Suh J(1), Kim DH(1), Surh YJ(2).Author information: (1)Tumor Microenvironment Global Core Research Center and Research Institute ofPharmaceutical Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea.(2)Tumor Microenvironment Global Core Research Center and Research Institute ofPharmaceutical Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea;Department of Molecular Medicine and Biopharmaceutical Sciences, Graduate School of Convergence Science and Technology, Seoul National University, Seoul, SouthKorea; Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea. Electronic address: surh@snu.ac.kr.Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) constitute a major compartment of the tumor microenvironment. CAFs produce a variety of cytokines, growth factors andextracellular matrix proteins, thereby stimulating tumor progression. CAFs aredistinct from normal fibroblasts for their overexpression of α-smooth muscleactin. Recent studies suggest that CAFs play an important role in proliferationand migration of cancer cells through cross-talk with them. Resveratrol(trans-3,4'5,-trihydroxystilbene), a phytoalexin present in grapes, has beenreported to possess chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic activities. In thepresent study, we examined the effects of resveratrol on CAF-induced migration,invasion and self-renewal activity of breast cancer cells. Resveratrol inhibited proliferation, migration and invasion of human breast cancer cells treated withCAF-conditioned media (CAF-CM). Resveratrol treatment suppressed theCAF-CM-induced expression of Cyclin D1, c-Myc, MMP-2 and MMP-9. In addition,resveratrol inhibited Sox2 expression as well as activation of Akt and STAT3induced by CAF-CM in breast cancer cells. Further, resveratrol abrogated stemnessproperties and reduced the expression of self-renewal signaling molecules instem-like breast cancer cells. Taken together, the present study providesinsights into the role of resveratrol in tumor microenvironment with focus oninteraction between cancer cells and the hosting niche.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2018.02.011 PMID: 29477771 