91. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2018 Feb 17. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acx142. [Epub ahead ofprint]The Impact of Using Different Reference Populations on Measurement of BreastCancer-Related Cognitive Impairment Rates.Clapp JD(1)(2), Luta G(1), Small BJ(2), Ahles TA(3), Root JC(3), Graham D(4),Hurria A(5), Jacobsen PB(6), Jim H(7), McDonald BC(8), Stern RA(9), Saykin AJ(8),Mandelblatt JS(1); Thinking and Living with Cancer (TLC) Study.Author information: (1)Georgetown-Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Washington, DC, USA.(2)University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.(3)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.(4)Hackensack University Medical Center, Hackensack, NJ, USA.(5)City of Hope, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(6)National Cancer Institute, Division of Cancer Control & Population Sciences(this work was performed while Dr. Jacobsen was at the Moffitt Cancer Center and does not reflect the views of the National Cancer Institute).(7)Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA.(8)Indiana University, Indianapolis, IN, USA.(9)Alzheimer's Disease and CTE Center, Boston University School of Medicine,Boston, MA, USA.Objective: To evaluate how use of different reference populations affectsestimates of breast cancer-related cognitive impairment rates.Methods: Patients aged ≥60 years with stage 0-3 breast cancer (n = 371) andmatched non-cancer controls (n = 370) completed 13 neuropsychological tests priorto systemic therapy or at enrollment (controls). The tests captured threedomains: attention, processing speed and executive function; learning and memory;and visual-spatial function. Domain-specific impairment was defined as having onetest score 2 SD below or two or more test scores 1.5 SD below the referencepopulation means. Different reference populations were used to define impairment:published normative data, study-specific controls, age and education-stratifiedcontrols, and age and education-adjusted controls. The associations between theresultant impairment rates and breast cancer (vs. control) were evaluated usingchi-square tests and logistic regression models. Cohen's kappa coefficients were used to evaluate agreement of impairment rates between study-specific controlperformance and the other reference population groups.Results: The patients and controls were aged 68.0 (SD 6.0) and 67.9 (SD 7.0)years, respectively. The association of breast cancer-control status withimpairment did not differ based on reference group. Cognitive impairment based onpublished normative data yielded less agreement on impairment rates (κ =0.22-0.89) than study-specific age and education-stratified control performance(κ = 0.62-1.00).Conclusion: The choice of reference populations did not affect conclusions about the association of cognition with breast cancer. However, while study-specificreference populations provided greater internal consistency in defining cognitiveimpairment, benchmarking against published normative data will enhance theability to compare results across studies.DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acx142 PMID: 29471454 