42. PLoS One. 2018 Feb 23;13(2):e0192729. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192729.eCollection 2018.Expressive writing intervention and self-reported physical health out-comes -Results from a nationwide randomized controlled trial with breast cancerpatients.Jensen-Johansen MB(1), O'Toole MS(2), Christensen S(2), Valdimarsdottir H(3)(4), Zakowski S(5), Bovbjerg DH(6)(7), Jensen AB(8), Zachariae R(2).Author information: (1)VIA University College, Aarhus, Denmark.(2)Unit for Psychooncology and Health Psychology, Department of Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital, and Department of Psychology and Behavioural Science,University of Aarhus, Aarhus, Denmark.(3)Reykjavik University, Reykjavik, Iceland.(4)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, United States of America.(5)Illinois School of Professional Psychology, Argosy University, Chicago, UnitedStates of America.(6)Biobehavioral Oncology Program, UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, Pittsburgh, PA,United States of America.(7)Departments of: Psychiatry, Psychology, Behavioral Community Health Sciencesand Health & Community Systems, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United States of America.(8)Department of Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.The objective was to examine the effect of Expressive Writing Intervention (EWI) on self-reported physical symptoms and healthcare utilization in a nationwiderandomized controlled trial with Danish women treated for primary breast cancer, and to explore participant characteristics related to emotion regulation aspossible moderators of the effect. Women who had recently completed treatment forprimary breast cancer (n = 507) were randomly assigned to three 20 min.home-based writing exercises, one week apart, focusing on emotional disclosure(EWI) of a distressing experience (their cancer or a non-cancer topic) or anon-disclosing topic (control). Outcomes were self-reported physical symptoms andhealthcare utilization (visits and telephone contacts with GP) 3 and 9 monthspost-intervention. Potential moderators were repressive coping, alexithymia,rumination, social constraints, and writing topic. Results revealed no group bytime interaction effects for any outcomes. Moderation analyses showed that 1) lowalexithymic women in the EWI group showed larger decreases in GP telephone calls over time than both high alexithymic women and controls and 2) women in the EWIgroup writing about their own cancer, but not women writing about other topics,showed a larger decrease than controls. The results from this large randomizedtrial are concordant with previous findings showing that EWI is unlikely to be a generally applicable intervention to improve health-related outcomes in cancerpatients and cancer survivors. However, written disclosure might have abeneficial impact for individuals who write about their own cancer, as well asfor those low in alexithymia.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0192729 PMCID: PMC5825018PMID: 29474441  [Indexed for MEDLINE]