88. Transl Behav Med. 2018 Feb 17. doi: 10.1093/tbm/iby002. [Epub ahead of print]Feasibility of smartphone application and social media intervention on breastcancer survivors' health outcomes.Pope Z(1), Lee JE(2), Zeng N(1), Lee HY(3), Gao Z(1).Author information: (1)School of Kinesiology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.(2)Department of Applied Human Sciences, University of Minnesota Duluth, Duluth, MN, USA.(3)School of Social Work (Health), University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL, USA.Breast cancer survivors are at risk for poor health, with physical activity apossible treatment. Little research has examined how technology might promotebreast cancer survivor physical activity or health. The aim of this study is toinvestigate the feasibility of employing a commercially available mobile healthapplication- and social media-based health education intervention to improvebreast cancer survivor physical activity or health.Ten breast cancer survivors(X̅ age = 45.80 ± 10.23 years; X̅ weight = 79.51 ± 20.85 kg) participated in this10-week single-group pilot study from 2015 to 2016. Participants downloaded theMapMyFitness application, documented all physical activity with MapMyFitness, andwere enrolled in a Social Cognitive Theory-based, Facebook-delivered healtheducation intervention. Objectively measured physical activity, weight or bodycomposition, cardiovascular fitness, psychosocial constructs, and quality of lifeindices were measured at baseline and 10 weeks. Intervention use andacceptability was evaluated during and following the intervention. Descriptivestatistics were calculated for all study outcomes, with qualitative analysesperformed regarding use and acceptability. At postintervention, average dailymoderate-to-vigorous physical activity and steps increased by 2.6 min and 1,657, respectively, with notable decreases in weight (2.4 kg) and body fat percentage(2.3%). Physical activity-related social support and ability to engage in social roles or activity demonstrated the greatest improvements among all psychosocialand quality of life indices, respectively. Participants enjoyed the feedback and tracking features of MapMyFitness, with most finding the Facebook componenthelpful. All participants recommended the intervention for future use.Physicalactivity interventions combining commercially available mobile healthapplications and theoretically based social media-delivered health interventions may promote certain physiological, psychosocial, and quality of life outcomesamong breast cancer survivors. Larger samples and randomized studies arewarranted.DOI: 10.1093/tbm/iby002 PMID: 29471477 