96. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2018 May 1;165:103-110. doi:10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.02.024. Epub 2018 Feb 13.Albumin-covered lipid nanocapsules exhibit enhanced uptake performance bybreast-tumor cells.Galisteo-González F(1), Molina-Bolívar JA(2), Navarro SA(3), Boulaiz H(3),Aguilera-Garrido A(4), Ramírez A(5), Marchal JA(3).Author information: (1)Department of Applied Physics, University of Granada, Spain; ExcellenceResearch Unit "Modeling Nature" (MNat), University of Granada, Spain. Electronic address: galisteo@ugr.es.(2)Department of Applied Physics II, Engineering School, University of Málaga,Spain.(3)Department of Human Anatomy and Embryology, University of Granada, Spain;Excellence Research Unit "Modeling Nature" (MNat), University of Granada, Spain; Biopathology and Medicine Regenerative Institute (IBIMER), University of Granada,Spain; Biosanitary Research Institute of Granada (ibs.GRANADA), UniversityHospitals of Granada-University of Granada, Spain.(4)Department of Applied Physics, University of Granada, Spain; ExcellenceResearch Unit "Modeling Nature" (MNat), University of Granada, Spain.(5)Biopathology and Medicine Regenerative Institute (IBIMER), University ofGranada, Spain; Biosanitary Research Institute of Granada (ibs.GRANADA),University Hospitals of Granada-University of Granada, Spain.Liquid lipid nanocapsules (LLN) represent a promising new generation ofdrug-delivery systems. They can carry hydrophobic drugs in their oily core, butthe composition and structure of the surrounding protective shell determine theircapacity to survive in the circulatory system and to achieve their goal:penetrate tumor cells. Here, we present a study of LLN covered by the proteinhuman serum albumin (HSA) and loaded with curcumin as a hydrophobic model drug. Across-linking procedure was performed to further strengthen the protectiveprotein layer. Physicochemical properties and release kinetics of thenanocapsules were investigated, and cellular uptake and killing capacity wereevaluated on the human breast-cancer line MCF-7. The nanocapsules exhibited ahalf maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) capacity similar to that of freecurcumin, but avoiding problems associated with excipients, and displayed anoutstanding uptake performance, entering cells massively in less than 1 min.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.02.024 PMID: 29471218 