116. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2018 Mar;123:83-94. doi:10.1016/j.critrevonc.2017.09.010. Epub 2017 Sep 20.Evolution in sentinel lymph node biopsy in breast cancer.Qiu SQ(1), Zhang GJ(2), Jansen L(3), de Vries J(3), Schröder CP(4), de VriesEGE(4), van Dam GM(5).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Groningen,Groningen, The Netherlands; Department of Surgery, University Medical CenterGroningen, Groningen, The Netherlands; The Breast Center, Cancer Hospital ofShantou University Medical College, Guangdong, China.(2)The Breast Center, Cancer Hospital of Shantou University Medical College,Guangdong, China; Changjiang Scholar's Laboratory of Shantou University MedicalCollege, Guangdong, China.(3)Department of Surgery, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, TheNetherlands.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Groningen,Groningen, The Netherlands.(5)Department of Surgery, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, TheNetherlands; Department of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, UniversityMedical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:g.m.van.dam@umcg.nl.Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is the standard of care for axillary staging inclinically node-negative (cN0) breast cancer patients without neoadjuvantchemotherapy (NAC). The application of SLNB in patients receiving NAC has alsobeen explored. Evidence supports its use after NAC in pretreatment cN0 patients. Nonetheless, its routine use in all the pretreatment node-positive patients whobecome cN0 after NAC is unjustified due to the unacceptably high false-negativerate, which can be improved in a subset of patients. Axillary surgery omission inselected patients with a low risk of ALN metastasis has gained more and moreresearch interest because the SLNs are tumor-free in more than 70% of allpatients. To avoid drawbacks of conventional mapping methods, novel techniquesfor SLN detection have been developed and shown to be highly accurate in patientswith early breast cancer. This article reviews the progress in SLNB in patientswith breast cancer.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2017.09.010 PMID: 29482783  [Indexed for MEDLINE]