29. Oncologist. 2018 Jun;23(6):660-669. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0343. Epub2018 Feb 27.Emerging Perspectives on mTOR Inhibitor-Associated Pneumonitis in Breast Cancer.Alvarez RH(1), Bechara RI(2), Naughton MJ(3), Adachi JA(4), Reuben JM(4).Author information: (1)Cancer Treatment Centers of America, Newnan, Georgia, USAricardo.alvarez@ctca-hope.com.(2)Cancer Treatment Centers of America, Newnan, Georgia, USA.(3)Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,Missouri, USA.(4)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.Substantial improvements in the early detection and treatment of breast cancerhave led to improvements in survival, but breast cancer remains a significantcause of morbidity and mortality in women. In 2012, the mammalian target ofrapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor everolimus was approved by the U.S. Food and DrugAdministration for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in patients resistant to endocrine therapy. Although everolimus is generally well tolerated, mTORinhibitor-associated pneumonitis is one of the most common adverse drug eventsleading to treatment discontinuation. To date, the underlying pathophysiology of this toxicity is unclear, and this uncertainty may hinder the optimization ofmanagement strategies. However, experiences from breast cancer and renal cellcarcinoma clinical trials indicate that mTOR inhibitor-associated pneumonitis canbe effectively managed by early detection, accurate diagnosis, and promptintervention that generally involves everolimus dose reductions, interruptions,or discontinuation. Management can be achieved by a multidisciplinary approachthat involves the collaborative efforts of nurses, oncologists, radiologists,infectious disease specialists, pulmonologists, clinical pharmacists, andpathologists. Comprehensive education must be provided to all health careprofessionals involved in managing patients receiving everolimus therapy.Although general recommendations on the management of mTOR inhibitor-associatedpneumonitis have been published, there is a lack of consensus on the optimalmanagement of this potentially serious complication. This article provides anoverview of mTOR inhibitor-associated pneumonitis, with a focus on the detection,accurate diagnosis, and optimal management of this class-related complication of mTOR inhibitor therapy.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: This article summarizes thepathogenesis, clinical presentation, incidence, detection, and optimal managementof everolimus-related noninfectious pneumonitis in breast cancer. In particular, this article provides a detailed overview of the important aspects of thedetection, accurate diagnosis, and appropriate management of mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor-associated pneumonitis. In addition, this article emphasizes that effective management of this adverse drug event in patients with breastcancer will require a multidisciplinary approach and collaboration among various health care professionals.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0343 PMCID: PMC6067931 [Available on 2019-06-01]PMID: 29487226 