4. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2017 May 25;46(5):473-480.[Advances on correlation of PET-CT findings with breast cancer molecularsubtypes, treatment response and prognosis].[Article in Chinese]Pan J(1), He M(1), Ke W(1), Hu M(1), Wang M(1), Shen P(2).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology, the First Affiliated Hospital, ZhejiangUniversity School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China.(2)Department of Medical Oncology, the First Affiliated Hospital, ZhejiangUniversity School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China. shenp@zju.edu.cn.In recent years, PET-CT has an increasing importance in the diagnosis andtreatment of breast cancer. PET-CT scan can be used as a noninvasive method formolecular subtyping of breast cancer, and prediction of therapeutic effect andprognosis of patients. Studies have revealed that luminal A subtype has asignificantly lower maximum standard intake value (SUVmax) than the othersubtypes; triple-negative and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)positive tumors have relatively high SUVmax than luminal B subtype, but thespecificity and sensitivity of SUVmax in diagnosis of molecular subtypes are verylow, so its clinical application is limited. In predicting the effectiveness ofthe treatment and the prognosis of the patients, the decreased uptake offluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is correlated with better therapeutic effect. Inaddition, patients with high FDG uptake have worse survival outcomes. Newtracers, such as 18F-fluoroestradiol (18F-FES) and[89Zr]trastuzumab play animportant role in molecular subtyping of breast cancer. 18F-FES PET-CT caneffectively evaluate the estrogen receptor (ER) status of breast cancer and theresponse to endocrine therapy.[89Zr]trastuzumab PET-CT can evaluate theexpression of HER2 and localization of HER2-overexpressing tumors, but theirspecificities and sensitivities are also low. In this article, we review therecent advances on the correlation of PET-CT findings with molecular subtypes,treatment response and prognosis of breast cancer.PMID: 29488712 