141. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2018 Mar;141(3):566-577. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000004107.Is the Right Research Being Conducted to Advance Knowledge about BreastReconstruction? An Analysis of the Research Pipeline.Checketts JX(1), Gordon J, Crawford JH, Adams H, Duckett L, Vassar M.Author information: (1)Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Okla. From Oklahoma State University Center forHealth Sciences; the Department of Surgery, Oklahoma State University MedicalCenter; and the Departments of Anesthesiology and Pediatric Endocrinology,University of Oklahoma.BACKGROUND: It has been estimated that up to 85 percent of research is of limitedvalue or wasted, in part because of the wrong research questions being addressed.In this study, the authors identified research gaps for breast reconstructionusing guideline recommendations based on low-quality or no evidence. The authors then evaluated whether research was currently being conducted to fill these gaps.METHODS: The authors extracted grade C and D options, which are based on limited evidence, from the American Society of Plastic Surgeon's clinical practiceguideline for breast reconstruction. For each option, the authors createdParticipants, Intervention, Comparator, Outcome questions and search stringsusing a systematic process. Searches were conducted of ClinicalTrials.gov and theWorld Health Organization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform tolocate new and ongoing studies. The authors also catalogued studies on breastreconstruction funded by the Plastic Surgery Foundation.RESULTS: Of the 10 research gaps, only six were being addressed by new andongoing research. Timing of reconstruction (immediate or delayed) and use ofacellular dermal matrix were most frequently studied. Preoperative referral of a plastic surgeon before mastectomy, complications associated with preoperativebreast size, effects of hormone therapy on postoperative outcomes, and methodsfor detecting local recurrence after mastectomy were not being addressed by newresearch. Studies funded by the Plastic Surgery Foundation showed a similarpattern.CONCLUSIONS: Of the areas identified, some have received more attention thanothers. Gaps remain. The authors' results should spark interest in conductingresearch on these topics and, by so doing, strengthen the clinical practiceguideline recommendations.DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000004107 PMID: 29481388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]