159. J Xray Sci Technol. 2018;26(1):29-49. doi: 10.3233/XST-17306.Automated and effective content-based image retrieval for digital mammography.Singh VP(1), Srivastava S(2), Srivastava R(1).Author information: (1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology(BHU), Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, India.(2)Department of Electronics & Communication Engineering, VNR-Vignana JyothiInstitute of Engineering and Technology, Hyderabad, India.Nowadays, huge number of mammograms has been generated in hospitals for thediagnosis of breast cancer. Content-based image retrieval (CBIR) can contributemore reliable diagnosis by classifying the query mammograms and retrievingsimilar mammograms already annotated by diagnostic descriptions and treatmentresults. Since labels, artifacts, and pectoral muscles present in mammograms can bias the retrieval procedures, automated detection and exclusion of these imagenoise patterns and/or non-breast regions is an essential pre-processing step. In this study, an efficient and automated CBIR system of mammograms was developedand tested. First, the pre-processing steps including automaticlabelling-artifact suppression, automatic pectoral muscle removal, and imageenhancement using the adaptive median filter were applied. Next, pre-processedimages were segmented using the co-occurrence thresholds based seeded regiongrowing algorithm. Furthermore, a set of image features including shape,histogram based statistical, Gabor, wavelet, and Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix (GLCM) features, was computed from the segmented region. In order to select theoptimal features, a minimum redundancy maximum relevance (mRMR) feature selectionmethod was then applied. Finally, similar images were retrieved using Euclideandistance similarity measure. The comparative experiments conducted with referenceto benchmark mammographic images analysis society (MIAS) database confirmed theeffectiveness of the proposed work concerning average precision of 72% and 61.30%for normal & abnormal classes of mammograms, respectively.DOI: 10.3233/XST-17306 PMID: 29480232 