1. Histol Histopathol. 2018 Aug;33(8):835-842. doi: 10.14670/HH-11-979. Epub 2018Feb 28.Differential cellular localization of CELSR2 and ING4 and correlations withhormone receptor status in breast cancer.Jiang L(#)(1), Zhang X(#)(2), Xiang C(3), Geradts J(4), Wei Q(5), Liang Y(6),Huang H(1)(7), Xu JF(8).Author information: (1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, the People's Hospital of Guangxi ZhuangAutonomous Region, Nanning, Guangxi, China.(2)Department of Pathology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi, China.(3)Department of Pathology, Huayin Medical Laboratory, Guangzhou, Guangdong,China.(4)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School,Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(5)Department of Pathology, the People's Hospital of Guangxi Zhuang AutonomousRegion, Nanning, Guangxi, China.(6)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan,Guangdong, China.(7)Department of Surgical Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NewYork, USA. Huayi.Huang@Roswellpark.org.(8)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan,Guangdong, China. imxujunfa@163.com.(#)Contributed equallyCELSR2 is postulated to be a receptor involved in contact-mediated communication;however, its expression and function in cancer remain unknown. ING4 is a tumorsuppresor encoded by the ING4 gene which inhibits cell growth. The expression of CELSR2 and ING4 in breast tumors and in benign epithelial cells have beenanalyzed and correlated with HER2, ER, and PR status. Immunohistochemistry wasused to analyze the expression of CELSR2 and ING4 protein in breast tumors andbenign epithelial cells. The differential cellular localization of both markerswas analyzed and results were also correlated with HER2, ER, and PR status.CELSR2 and ING4 cytoplasmic expression was significantly stronger in tumors than in benign epithelial cells, while the nuclear expression of both markers wassignificantly stronger in benign epithelial cells than in tumors. When comparing the two markers in the same type of tissues, the nuclear expression of CELSR2 wassignificantly stronger than cytoplasmic in benign epithelial cells, while therewas no significant difference in the cellular localization of CELSR2 in tumors.For ING4, the cytoplasmic expression was significantly stronger than nuclearexpression in tumors, while in benign epithelial cells, ING4 was expressed atsimilar levels in both compartments. There was no correlation between CELSR2expression and HER2, ER, and PR status in tumors. However, the cytoplasmicexpression of ING4 was associated with HER2 positivity in tumors. Both CELSR2 andING4 display increased cytoplasmic staining in breast cancer cells compared tobenign epithelium, suggesting a possible role of both genes in the pathogenesisof human mammary neoplasia.DOI: 10.14670/HH-11-979 PMID: 29489009 