137. Ann Plast Surg. 2018 Apr;80(4 Suppl 4):S223-S228. doi:10.1097/SAP.0000000000001364.A 3-Dimensional Biomimetic Platform to Interrogate the Safety of Autologous FatTransfer in the Setting of Breast Cancer.Toyoda Y, Celie KB, Xu JT, Buro JS, Jin J, Lin AJ, Brown KA, Spector JA.INTRODUCTION: Obesity is a known risk factor for the development and prognosis ofbreast cancer. Adipocytes have been identified as a source of exogenous lipids inother cancer types and may similarly provide energy to fuel malignant survivaland growth in breast cancer. This relationship is of particular relevance toplastic surgery, because many reconstructions after oncologic mastectomy achieve optimal aesthetics and durability using adjunctive autologous fat transfer (AFT).Despite the increasing ubiquity and promise of AFT, many unanswered questionsremain, including safety in the setting of breast cancer. Clinical studies toexamine this question are underway, but an in vitro system is critical toelucidate the complex interplay between the cells that normally reside at thesurgical recipient site. To study these interactions and characterize possiblelipid transfer between adipocytes to breast cancer cells, we designed a3-dimensional in vitro model using primary patient-derived tissues.METHODS: Breast adipose tissue was acquired from patients undergoing breastreduction surgery. The tissue was enzymatically digested and sorted to retrieveadipocytes and adipose stromal cells. Polydimethylsiloxane wells were filled withtype I collagen-encapsulated adipocytes labeled with the fluorescent lipid dyeboron dipyrromethene, as well as unlabeled adipose stromal cells. A monolayer of red fluorescently labeled MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cells wasseeded on the surface of the construct. Lipid transfer at the interface betweenadipocytes and breast cancer cells was analyzed.RESULTS: Confocal microscopy revealed a dense culture of native adipocytescontaining fluorescent lipid droplets in the 3-dimensional collagen cultureplatform. RFP-positive breast cancer cells were found in close proximity tolipid-laden adipocytes. Lipid transfer from adipocytes to breast cancer cells wasobserved by the presence of boron dipyrromethene-positive lipid droplets withinRFP-labeled breast cancer cells.CONCLUSION: We have established a 3-dimensional model to study complex breastcancer-adipose tissue interactions. Direct transfer of fluorescently labeledlipids from adipocytes to breast cancer cells may indicate aberrant metabolism tofuel malignant growth and adaptive survival. Our novel platform can untangle the complex interplay within the breast cancer tumor microenvironment forhigh-throughput analysis and better elucidate the safety of AFT in postoncologic mastectomy.DOI: 10.1097/SAP.0000000000001364 PMID: 29481479 