60. J Clin Lab Anal. 2018 Feb 27. doi: 10.1002/jcla.22418. [Epub ahead of print]Identification of a novel truncating mutation in PALB2 gene by a multigenesequencing panel for mutational screening of breast cancer risk-associated andrelated genes.Guacci A(1), Cordella A(1), Rocco T(1), Giurato G(1)(2), Nassa G(2)(3), RizzoF(2)(3), Carlomagno C(4), Pepe S(5), Tarallo R(2)(3), Weisz A(2)(3).Author information: (1)Genomix4Life srl, Department of Medicine, Surgery and Dentistry, 'ScuolaMedica Salernitana', University of Salerno, Baronissi, Italy.(2)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Genomics, Department of Medicine, Surgeryand Dentistry, 'Scuola Medica Salernitana', University of Salerno, Baronissi,Italy.(3)Medical Genomics Program, 'SS. Giovanni di Dio e Ruggi d'Aragona' Hospital,University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy.(4)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Napoli 'FedericoII', Napoli, Italy.(5)Division of Oncology, 'SS. Giovanni di Dio e Ruggi d'Aragona' Hospital,University of Salerno, Salerno, Italy.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) is the most common neoplasm in women, with 5%-10% patients showing a familial predisposition, where germline mutations inBRCA1/BRCA2 genes are found in -20% of cases. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) isamong the best available options for genetic screening, providing severalbenefits that include enhanced sensitivity and unbiased mutation detection. PALB2(partner and localizer of BRCA2) is a cancer predisposing gene recently describedthat encodes a protein partner of BRCA2 involved in DNA double-strand breakrepair and cell cycle control. The DNA damage response represents a key cellular event, targeted by innovative anticancer therapies, including those based on poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors targeting PARP1 and PARP2 enzymes,activated by DNA damage and involved in single-strand break and base excisionrepair.METHODS: Genomic DNA was isolated from 34 patient samples and four BC cell lines,as controls, and 27 breast cancer predisposing genes belonging to the BRCA1/BRCA2and PARP pathways were sequenced by NGS.RESULTS: The panel described here allowed identification of several sequencevariations in most investigated genes, among which we found a novel truncatingmutation in PALB2.CONCLUSIONS: The NGS-based strategy designed here for molecular analysis of acustomized panel of BC predisposing and related genes was found to performeffectively, providing a comprehensive exploration of all genomic sequences ofthe investigated genes. It is thus useful for BC molecular diagnosis, inparticular for familiar cases where alterations in routinely investigated genes, such as BRCAs, result to be absent.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcla.22418 PMID: 29484706 