61. Br J Health Psychol. 2018 May;23(2):455-475. doi: 10.1111/bjhp.12299. Epub 2018Mar 2.'It's a silver lining': A template analysis of satisfaction and quality of lifefollowing post-mastectomy breast reconstruction.Matthews H(1), Turner A(1), Williamson I(2), Clyne W(1).Author information: (1)Faculty of Health & Life Sciences, Centre for Technology Enabled HealthResearch, Coventry University, UK.(2)Health and Life Sciences, School of Applied Social Sciences, De MontfortUniversity, Leicester, UK.OBJECTIVE: In the United Kingdom, the number of women undergoing post-mastectomy breast reconstruction is increasing. Consequently, exploring patient-reportedoutcomes in breast surgery has become increasingly important. This studyinvestigated satisfaction and quality of life following post-mastectomy breastreconstruction.DESIGN: Qualitative research design.METHODS: In-depth, semi-structured telephone interviews were conducted with 25women (age, M = 53.08, SD = 8.41) following breast reconstruction in the UnitedKingdom. Data were analysed using template analysis which producedthree-first-level, 13 second-level, and 19 third-level themes.RESULTS: Following reconstruction, women reported improved emotional functioning,although this was often accompanied by deterioration in physical, sexual, and/or social functioning. Women positively appraised their breast appearance, although some reported a decline in satisfaction over time, attributing this decline totheir chosen reconstructive technique. Many women accepted the inevitability ofscarring and most perceived their scars as a representation of their journey,signifying survival. Generally, women were satisfied with the outcome of theirreconstruction, although on reflection some would not have opted forreconstruction. Following breast reconstruction, women were increasingly likelyto experience the fear of recurrence, attributed to no longer being able to have a mammogram on the affected breast(s).CONCLUSIONS: This study provides new insights into post-mastectomy breastreconstruction and is a novel application of template analysis. The analysisdemonstrates only slight variation in some categories of experience among women, despite a heterogeneous sample. The findings allow researchers and clinicians to focus on specific dimensions of satisfaction and quality of life to support theneeds of women following reconstruction. Statement of contribution What isalready known on this subject? Patient satisfaction and quality of life are keypatient-reported outcomes of breast reconstruction, although relatively fewstudies distinguish between types of satisfaction. The number of women electingto undergo reconstructive surgery is steadily increasing. As a consequence,exploring patient-reported outcomes in reconstructive breast surgery has becomeincreasingly important for research and clinical practice. It is often suggested that breast reconstruction offers psychosocial benefits, although within theliterature some mixed findings have been reported. Therefore, a qualitativeexploration has the potential to add some clarity to the experiences of womenfollowing post-mastectomy breast reconstruction. What does this study add? To ourknowledge, this is the first study to employ template analysis to explore theexperiences of women following post-mastectomy breast reconstruction. Templateanalysis demonstrated that there was only slight variation in some categories of experience among women, despite a heterogeneous sample. This study distinguishes between the patient-reported outcomes breast satisfaction and outcomesatisfaction to identify the key factors that are involved in determiningsatisfaction. The findings allow researchers and clinicians to focus on specific dimensions of satisfaction and quality of life which require improvement tosupport the unmet needs of women following breast reconstruction. The studypresents two novel findings. Women attributed the fear of cancer recurrence to nolonger being able to have a mammogram on the affected breast(s). Women alsoreported a decline in appearance-related satisfaction over time due to either theptotic nature of autologous-based reconstruction or the fuller projected breastimplant-based reconstruction affords.© 2018 The British Psychological Society.DOI: 10.1111/bjhp.12299 PMID: 29498475 