148. Cureus. 2017 Dec 19;9(12):e1966. doi: 10.7759/cureus.1966.Efficacy of Stereotactic Radiosurgery in Patients with Multiple Metastases:Importance of Volume Rather Than Number of Lesions.Dahshan BA(1), Mattes MD(2), Bhatia S(3), Palek MS(2), Cifarelli CP(3), HackJD(2), Vargo JA(2).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Marshall University, Joan C. Edwards School of Medicine.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, West Virginia University School of Medicine.(3)Department of Neurosurgery, West Virginia University School of Medicine.The role of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) in the treatment of multiple brainmetastases is controversial. While whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) hashistorically been the mainstay of treatment, its value is increasingly beingquestioned as emerging data supports that SRS alone can provide comparabletherapeutic outcomes for limited (one to three) intracranial metastaseswith fewer adverse effects, including neurocognitive decline. Multiple recentstudies have also demonstrated that patients with multiple (> 3) intracranialmetastases with a low overall tumor volume have a favorable therapeutic response to SRS, with no significant difference compared to patients with limitedmetastases. Herein, we present a patient with previously controlled breast cancerwho presented with multiple recurrences of intracranial metastases but low total intracranial tumor volume each time. This patient underwent SRS alone for a totalof 40 metastatic lesions over three separate procedures with good local controland without any significant cognitive toxicity. The patient eventually opted for enrollment in the NRG-CC001 clinical trial after multiple cranial recurrences.She received conventional WBRT with six months of memantine and developedsignificant neurocognitive side effects. This case highlights the growing body ofliterature supporting the role of SRS alone in the management of multiple brainmetastases and the importance of maximizing neurocognition as advances insystemic therapies prolong survival in Stage IV cancer.DOI: 10.7759/cureus.1966 PMCID: PMC5820093PMID: 29492355 