Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.162. Int J Nanomedicine. 2018 Feb 14;13:957-973. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S152742. eCollection2018.Investigation of antitumor activities of trastuzumab delivered by PLGAnanoparticles.Colzani B(#)(1), Pandolfi L(#)(1), Hoti A(1), Iovene PA(1), Natalello A(1),Avvakumova S(1), Colombo M(1), Prosperi D(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Biotechnology and Biosciences, University of Milano Bicocca,Milano, Italy.(2)Nanomedicine Laboratory, ICS Maugeri S. p. A. SB, Pavia, Italy.(#)Contributed equallyBackground: We report the development of an efficient antibody delivery systemfor the incorporation of trastuzumab (TZ) into poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acidnanoparticles (PLGA NPs). The aim of the work was to overcome the currentlimitations in the clinical use of therapeutic antibodies, includingimmunogenicity, poor pharmacokinetics, low tumor penetration and safety issues.Materials and methods: Trastuzumab-loaded PLGA NPs (PLGA-TZ) were synthesizedaccording to a double emulsion method. The same protocol was used to producecontrol batches of nonspecific IgG-loaded NPs and empty PLGA NPs. After releaseof TZ from PLGA NPs, the effects on the main biological activities of theantibody were evaluated on SKBR3 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2[HER2]-positive breast cancer cell line), including specific binding to HER2,phosphorylation of HER2 (Y1248), degradation of HER2 protein andantibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) mechanism. In addition, anMTT assay was performed for treating SKBR3 cells with PLGA NPs loaded with TZ anddoxorubicin to evaluate the cytotoxic activity of the combined treatment.Results and discussion: TZ was gradually released in a prolonged way over 30days. The physical characterization performed with circular dichroism, Fouriertransform infrared and fluorescence spectroscopy of TZ after release demonstratedthat no structural alterations occurred compared to the native antibody. In vitroexperiments using SKBR3 cells showed that TZ released from PLGA NPs maintainedthe same biological activity of native TZ. PLGA NPs allowed a goodco-encapsulation efficiency of TZ and doxorubicin resulting in improved therapy.Conclusion: With the TZ case study, we demonstrate that the distinctive features of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies, including molecular targeting efficiency,capability to inhibit or properly affect the regulatory signaling pathways ofcancer cells and stimulation of the ADCC, are fully preserved after loading into and release from PLGA NPs. In addition, PLGA NPs are shown to allow for thesimultaneous incorporation of TZ and conventional chemotherapeutics, resulting ina potent antitumor nanodrug well suited for in situ combination and neoadjuvanttherapy.DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S152742 PMCID: PMC5817418PMID: 29491709  [Indexed for MEDLINE]