164. Pharmacogn Mag. 2018 Jan;13(Suppl 4):S890-S894. doi: 10.4103/pm.pm_136_17. Epub2018 Jan 31.Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry Analysis and Cytotoxicity of Asparagusadscendens Roots against Human Cancer Cell Lines.Khan KM(1)(2)(3), Nahar L(1), Mannan A(2), Arfan M(4), Khan GA(5), Al-GroshiA(1), Evans A(1), Dempster NM(1), Ismail FMD(1), Sarker SD(1).Author information: (1)School of Pharmacy and Bimolecular Sciences, Medicinal Chemistry and NaturalProducts Research Group, Liverpool John Moores University, England, UK.(2)Department of Pharmacy, COMSATS Institute of Information Technology,Abbottabad, Pakistan.(3)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Veterinary and AnimalSciences, Lahore, Pakistan.(4)Department of Chemistry, School of Natural Sciences, National University ofScience and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan.(5)Department of Research and Development, Drug Regulatory Authority, Islamabad, Pakistan.Background: Asparagus adscendens Roxb. (Asparagaceae), is native to theHimalayas. This plant has been used in the prevention and effective treatment of various forms of cancers.Objective: This paper reports, for the first time, on the cytotoxicity of themethanol (MeOH) extract of the roots of A. adscendens and its solid-phaseextraction (SPE) fractions against four human carcinoma cell lines andLC-ESI-QTOF-MS analysis of the SPE fractions.Materials and Methods: Finely powdered roots of A. adscendens were macerated inmethanol and extracted through SPE using gradient solvent system (water:methanol) proceeded for analysis on LC-ESI-QTOF-MS and cytotoxicity against four human carcinoma cell lines: breast (MCF7), liver (HEPG2), lung (A549), andurinary bladder (EJ138), using the3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazoliumbromide assay.Results: The MeOH extract and four SPE fractions exhibited cytotoxicity againstall cell lines with the IC50 values ranging from 6 to 79 μg/mL. As observed inother Asparagus species, the presence of saponins and sapogenins in the SPEfractions was evident in the liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry data.Conclusion: It is reasonable to assume that the cytotoxicity of the MeOH extract of the roots of A. adscendens and its SPE fractions, at least partly, due to the presence of saponins and their aglycones. This suggests that A. adscendens could be exploited as a potential source of cytotoxic compounds with putativeanticancer potential.SUMMARY: The MeOH extract and all solid-phase extraction (SPE) fractionsexhibited various levels of cytotoxicity against all cell lines with the IC50values ranging from 6 to 79 μg/mLThe presence of saponins and sapogenins in theSPE fractions was evident in the Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry dataDue to the presence of saponins and their aglycones, suggest that A. adscendens couldbe exploited as a potential source of cytotoxic compounds with putativeanticancer potential. Abbreviation used: SPE: Solid-phase extraction, MCF7:Breast cancer cell line, HEPG2: Liver cancer cell line, A549: Lung liver cancercell line, EJ138: Urinary bladder cancer cell line, MTT:3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazoliumbromide, LC-MS: Liquidchromatography-mass spectrometry.DOI: 10.4103/pm.pm_136_17 PMCID: PMC5822517PMID: 29491650 