Conflict of interest statement: Not applicable.Not applicable.The authorsdeclared that they have no conflicts of interest to this work. We declare that wedo not have any commercial or associative interest that represents a conflict of interest in connection with the work submitted.Springer Nature remains neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutionalaffiliations.161. Cancer Manag Res. 2018 Feb 12;10:297-304. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S157124. eCollection 2018.Husbands' perceptions of their wives' breast cancer coping efficacy: testingcongruence models of adjustment.Merluzzi TV(1), Martinez Sanchez M(2).Author information: (1)Department of Psychology, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN.(2)Pima Community College, Tucson, AZ, USA.Introduction: Recent reviews have reinforced the notion that having a supportive spouse can help with the process of coping with and adjusting to cancer.Congruence between spouses' perspectives has been proposed as one mechanism inthat process, yet alternative models of congruence have not been examinedclosely. This study assessed alternative models of congruence in perceptions ofcoping and their mediating effects on adjustment to breast cancer.Methods: Seventy-two women in treatment for breast cancer and their husbandscompleted measures of marital adjustment, self-efficacy for coping, andadjustment to cancer. Karnofsky Performance Status was obtained from medicalrecords. Wives completed a measure of self-efficacy for coping (wives' ratings ofself-efficacy for coping [WSEC]) and husbands completed a measure ofself-efficacy for coping (husbands' ratings of wives' self-efficacy for coping[HSEC]) based on their perceptions of their wives' coping efficacy.Results: Interestingly, the correlation between WSEC and HSEC was only 0.207;thus, they are relatively independent perspectives. The following three modelswere tested to determine the nature of the relationship between WSEC and HSEC:discrepancy model (WSEC - HSEC), additive model (WSEC + HSEC), and multiplicativemodel (WSEC × HSEC). The discrepancy model was not related to wives' adjustment; however, the additive (B=0.205, P<0.001) and multiplicative (B=0.001, P<0.001)models were significantly related to wives' adjustment. Also, the additive model mediated the relationship between performance status and adjustment.Discussion: Husbands' perception of their wives' coping efficacy contributedmarginally to their wives' adjustment, and the combination of WSEC and HSECmediated the relationship between functional status and wives' adjustment, thuspositively impacting wives' adjustment to cancer. Future research is needed todetermine the quality of the differences between HSEC and WSEC in order todevelop interventions to optimize the impact of these two relatively independent perspectives on cancer outcomes.DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S157124 PMCID: PMC5815476PMID: 29491720 