71. Oncol Rep. 2018 May;39(5):2193-2200. doi: 10.3892/or.2018.6284. Epub 2018 Feb 28.Genetic polymorphisms and protein expression of P53 and BRCA1 in preneoplasticand neoplastic rat mammary glands.Al-Dhaheri W(1), Hassouna I(2), Karam SM(1).Author information: (1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, UAEUniversity, Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates.(2)Department of Biology, College of Science, UAE University, Al-Ain, United ArabEmirates.Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer and the leading cause ofcancer-related deaths among women in the United Arab Emirates and worldwide.Although many factors contribute to the high incidence of breast cancer, aconsiderable number of cases are related to environmental factors. In the presentstudy, breast cancer was induced in female rats using a single dose, 80 mg/kgbody wt, of the environmental carcinogen 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA).The aim of the present study, was to characterize some of the molecular changesthat occur during breast cancer development in the DMBA-treated rat model.Mammary gland tissues of control and DMBA-treated rats were processed for:i) immunohistochemical probing using anti-BRCA1 antibody to characterize andcorrelate the localization of this cell cycle protein during progression tocancer, ii) western blotting to analyze the alteration of p53 protein expression in preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions of the mammary glands, andiii) polymerase chain reactions using primers specific for BRCA1 and P53 genesfollowed by single stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) or restrictionfragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assays to detect possible mutations in these genes during development of breast cancer. Microscopic examination revealed awide range of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions providing a sequencerepresenting the multistep process of breast cancer formation in DMBA-treatedrats. Probing for BRCA1 protein revealed a gradual defect in its translocationfrom the cytoplasm to the nucleus during breast cancer progression. In controlrats, BRCA1 was present in the nuclei of terminal duct epithelial cells. However,in the preneoplastic lesions, BRCA1 was localized in both the cytoplasm andnuclei of the epithelial duct cells. In all malignant lesions, BRCA1 was mostlyfound in the cytoplasm. Western blotting revealed initial downregulation in theexpression of p53 protein during breast cancer development. However, withprogression towards malignancy, upregulation of p53 was observed. These changeswere associated with polymorphism in p53 gene, which was detected in exon 5 usingSSCP assay. However, using RFLP and BamHI to digest the PCR products of exon 11of BRCA1 gene revealed no detectable polymorphisms. In conclusion, molecularcharacterization of the early changes that occur during development of breastcancer provides some clues for better understanding of its pathogenesis.DOI: 10.3892/or.2018.6284 PMID: 29498408 