190. Biophys J. 2018 Feb 27;114(4):904-918. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2017.12.042.The Chemical Potential of Plasma Membrane Cholesterol: Implications for CellBiology.Ayuyan AG(1), Cohen FS(2).Author information: (1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Rush University Medical Center,Chicago, Illinois. Electronic address: artem_ayuyan@rush.edu.(2)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Rush University Medical Center,Chicago, Illinois. Electronic address: fredric_cohen@rush.edu.Cholesterol is abundant in plasma membranes and exhibits a variety ofinteractions throughout the membrane. Chemical potential accounts forthermodynamic consequences of molecular interactions, and quantifies theeffective concentration (i.e., activity) of any substance participating in aprocess. We have developed, to our knowledge, the first method to measurecholesterol chemical potential in plasma membranes. This was accomplished bycomplexing methyl-β-cyclodextrin with cholesterol in an aqueous solution andequilibrating it with an organic solvent containing dissolved cholesterol. Thechemical potential of cholesterol was thereby equalized in the two phases.Because cholesterol is dilute in the organic phase, here activity andconcentration were equivalent. This equivalence allowed the amount of cholesterolbound to methyl-β-cyclodextrin to be converted to cholesterol chemical potential.Our method was used to determine the chemical potential of cholesterol inerythrocytes and in plasma membranes of nucleated cells in culture. Forerythrocytes, the chemical potential did not vary when the concentration wasbelow a critical value. Above this value, the chemical potential progressivelyincreased with concentration. We used standard cancer lines to characterizecholesterol chemical potential in plasma membranes of nucleated cells. Thischemical potential was significantly greater for highly metastatic breast cancer cells than for nonmetastatic breast cancer cells. Chemical potential depended on density of the cancer cells. A method to alter and fix the cholesterol chemicalpotential to any value (i.e., a cholesterol chemical potential clamp) was alsodeveloped. Cholesterol content did not change when cells were clamped for 24-48h. It was found that the level of activation of the transcription factor STAT3increased with increasing cholesterol chemical potential. The cholesterolchemical potential may regulate signaling pathways.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2017.12.042 PMCID: PMC5984996 [Available on 2019-02-27]PMID: 29490250 