Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest PDC, VS, EO’C, and SAA: No interest declared. DJB: Received unrestricted research grant funding from AirLiquide, manufacturer of xenon, on the editorial board of BJA. HCG: Receivedunrestricted research grant funding from Air Liquide, manufacturers of xenon.87. Front Cell Neurosci. 2018 Feb 15;12:38. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2018.00038.eCollection 2018.Parathyroid Hormone-Related Peptide Elicits Peripheral TRPV1-dependent MechanicalHypersensitivity.Shepherd AJ(1)(2), Mickle AD(1)(2), Kadunganattil S(2), Hu H(2)(3)(4), Mohapatra DP(1)(2)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacology, Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, United States.(2)Washington University Pain Center, Department of Anesthesiology, WashingtonUniversity School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States.(3)Center for the Study of Itch, Department of Anesthesiology, WashingtonUniversity School of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States.(4)Center for Investigation on Membrane Excitable Diseases, Washington UniversitySchool of Medicine in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, United States.Bone metastasis in breast, prostate and lung cancers often leads to chronic pain,which is poorly managed by existing analgesics. The neurobiological mechanismsthat underlie chronic pain associated with bone-metastasized cancers are not wellunderstood, but sensitization of peripheral nociceptors by tumor microenvironmentfactors has been demonstrated to be important. Parathyroid hormone-relatedpeptide (PTHrP) is highly expressed in bone-metastasized breast and prostatecancers, and is critical to growth and proliferation of these tumors in the bone tumor microenvironment. Previous studies have suggested that PTHrP couldsensitize nociceptive sensory neurons, resulting in peripheral painhypersensitivity. In this study, we found that PTHrP induces both heat andmechanical hypersensitivity, that are dependent on the pain-transducing transientreceptor potential channel family vanilloid, member-1 (TRPV1), but not themechano-transducing TRPV4 and TRPA1 ion channels. Functional ratiometric Ca2+imaging and voltage-clamp electrophysiological analysis of cultured mouse DRGneurons show significant potentiation of TRPV1, but not TRPA1 or TRPV4 channelactivation by PTHrP. Interestingly, PTHrP exposure led to the slow and sustained activation of TRPV1, in the absence of any exogenous channel agonist, and isdependent on the expression of the type-1 parathyroid hormone receptor (PTH1), aswell as on downstream phosphorylation of the channel by protein kinase C (PKC).Accordingly, local administration of specific small-molecule antagonists of TRPV1to mouse hindpaws after the development of PTHrP-induced mechanicalhypersensitivity led to its significant attenuation. Collectively, our findingssuggest that PTHrP/PTH1-mediated flow activation of TRPV1 channel contributes at least in part to the development and maintenance of peripheral mechanical painhypersensitivity, and could therefore constitute a mechanism for nociceptorsensitization in the context of metastatic bone cancer pain.DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2018.00038 PMCID: PMC5818411PMID: 29497363 