128. J Leukoc Biol. 2018 Mar 1. doi: 10.1002/JLB.5RI0917-380RR. [Epub ahead of print]BET proteins in abnormal metabolism, inflammation, and the breast cancermicroenvironment.Andrieu GP(1), Shafran JS(1), Deeney JT(2), Bharadwaj KR(3), Rangarajan A(3),Denis GV(1).Author information: (1)Cancer Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts,USA.(2)Department of Medicine, Section of Endocrinology, Obesity Research Center,Evans Biomedical Research Center, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston,Massachusetts, USA.(3)Department of Molecular Reproduction, Development and Genetics, IndianInstitute of Science, Bengaluru, India.Obesity and its associated pathology Type 2 diabetes are two chronic metabolicand inflammatory diseases that promote breast cancer progression, metastasis, andpoor outcomes. Emerging critical opinion considers unresolved inflammation andabnormal metabolism separately from obesity; settings where they do not co-occur can inform disease mechanism. In breast cancer, the tumor microenvironment isoften infiltrated with T effector and T regulatory cells programmed by metabolic signaling. The pathways by which tumor cells evade immune surveillance, immunetherapies, and take advantage of antitumor immunity are poorly understood, butlikely depend on metabolic inflammation in the microenvironment. Immune functionsare abnormal in metabolic disease, and lessons learned from preclinical studiesin lean and metabolically normal environments may not translate to patients with obesity and metabolic disease. This problem is made more urgent by the risingincidence of breast cancer among women who are not obese but who have metabolicdisease and associated inflammation, a phenotype common in Asia. The somatic BET proteins, comprising BRD2, BRD3, and BRD4, are new critical regulators ofmetabolism, coactivate transcription of genes that encode proinflammatorycytokines in immune cell subsets infiltrating the microenvironment, and could be important targets in breast cancer immunotherapy. These transcriptionalcoregulators are well known to regulate tumor cell progression, but only recentlyidentified as critical for metabolism, metastasis, and expression of immunecheckpoint molecules. We consider interrelationships among metabolism,inflammation, and breast cancer aggressiveness relevant to the emerging threat ofbreast cancer among women with metabolic disease, but without obesity.©2018 Society for Leukocyte Biology.DOI: 10.1002/JLB.5RI0917-380RR PMID: 29493812 