125. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2018 Jul 26;56(8):1210-1222. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2017-0870.Telomere biology and age-related diseases.Herrmann M(1)(2), Pusceddu I(3), März W(2)(4)(5), Herrmann W(6).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Bolzano Hospital, Lorenz-Boehler-Str. 5,39100 Bolzano, Italy.(2)Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics, MedicalUniversity of Graz, Graz, Austria.(3)Laboratory of Clinical Pathology, Hospital of Bolzano, Bolzano, Italy.(4)Medical Clinic V (Nephrology, Hypertensiology, Rheumatology, Endocrinology,Diabetology), Medical Faculty of Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim,Germany.(5)Synlab Academy, Synlab Holding Deutschland GmbH, Mannheim, Germany.(6)Department of Clinical Chemistry, University of Saarland, Homburg, Germany.Telomeres are the protective end caps of chromosomes and shorten with every cell division. Telomere length has been proposed as a biomarker of biological age and a risk factor for age-related diseases. Epidemiologic studies show an associationbetween leukocyte telomere length (LTL) and mortality. There is solid evidencethat links LTL with cardiovascular disease. Short telomeres promoteatherosclerosis and impair the repair of vascular lesions. Alzheimer's diseasepatients have also a reduced LTL. Telomeres measured in tumor tissue from breast,colon and prostate are shorter than in healthy tissue from the same organ and thesame patient. In healthy tissue directly adjacent to these tumors, telomeres are also shorter than in cells that are more distant from the cancerous lesion. Areduced telomere length in cancer tissue from breast, colon and prostate isassociated with an advanced disease state at diagnosis, faster diseaseprogression and poorer survival. By contrast, results regarding LTL and cancerare inconsistent. Furthermore, the majority of studies did not find significantassociations between LTL, bone mineral density (BMD) and osteoporosis. Thepresent manuscript gives an overview about our current understanding of telomere biology and reviews existing knowledge regarding the relationship betweentelomere length and age-related diseases.DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2017-0870 PMID: 29494336 