177. Anticancer Res. 2018 Mar;38(3):1499-1510.Expression of Progesterone and Androgen Receptors in the Breast of Premenopausal Women, Considering Menstrual Phase.Fahlén M(1)(2), Zhang H(3), Löfgren L(4), Masironi B(3), VON Schoultz E(2), VONSchoultz BO(5), Sahlin L(3).Author information: (1)Capio St. Göran's Hospital, Karolinska Institute and University Hospital,Stockholm, Sweden mia.fahlen@capiostgoran.se.(2)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Karolinska Institute and UniversityHospital, Stockholm, Sweden.(3)Pediatric Endocrinology Unit, Nordfertil Research Lab, Karolinska Instituteand University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.(4)Capio St. Göran's Hospital, Karolinska Institute and University Hospital,Stockholm, Sweden.(5)Division of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Women's and Children'sHealth, Karolinska Institute and University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.BACKGROUND: Progesterone and androgens are important for normal development andtumorigenesis of the breast.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Breast tissue samples from 49 premenopausal women wereobtained. The progesterone receptors (PRA, PRB, PGRMC1 and PGRMC2) and theandrogen receptor (AR) were determined in malignant and benign breast tumors and control tissues.RESULTS: The PRB and AR mRNA levels were highest in tumors. PGRMC1 and PGRMC2mRNA levels were higher in malignant tumors compared to their paired normaltissues. PRA protein showed most immunostaining in benign tumors. PRBimmunostaining varied according to menstrual phase. AR immunostaining was highestin the glands of malignant tumors.CONCLUSION: Progesterone and androgen receptors are differently regulated intumors compared to normal breast tissues. A malignant breast tumor could appearPR-negative if collected in the luteal phase, but positive in the follicularphase. This finding may have clinical implications.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.12377 PMID: 29491078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]