97. Drug Metab Dispos. 2018 May;46(5):729-739. doi: 10.1124/dmd.117.080044. Epub 2018Mar 1.Navigating Transporter Sciences in Pharmacokinetics Characterization Using theExtended Clearance Classification System.El-Kattan AF(1), Varma MVS(2).Author information: (1)Pharmacokinetics Dynamics and Metabolism, Medicine Design, Pfizer GlobalResearch and Development, Pfizer Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts (A.F.E.-K.); and Pharmacokinetics Dynamics and Metabolism, Medicine Design, Pfizer Global Researchand Development, Pfizer Inc., Groton, Connecticut (M.V.S.V.).(2)Pharmacokinetics Dynamics and Metabolism, Medicine Design, Pfizer GlobalResearch and Development, Pfizer Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts (A.F.E.-K.); and Pharmacokinetics Dynamics and Metabolism, Medicine Design, Pfizer Global Researchand Development, Pfizer Inc., Groton, Connecticut (M.V.S.V.)manthena.v.varma@pfizer.com.Membrane transporters play an important role in the absorption, distribution,clearance, and elimination of drugs. Supported by the pharmacokinetics data inhuman, several transporters including organic anion transporting polypeptide(OATP)1B1, OATP1B3, organic anion transporter (OAT)1, OAT3, organic cationtransporter (OCT)2, multidrug and toxin extrusion (MATE) proteins, P-glycoproteinand breast cancer resistance protein are suggested to be of clinical relevance.An early understanding of the transporter role in drug disposition and clearance allows reliable prediction/evaluation of pharmacokinetics and changes due todrug-drug interactions (DDIs) or genetic polymorphisms. We recently proposed anextended clearance classification system (ECCS) based on simple drug properties(i.e., ionization, permeability, and molecular weight) to predict the predominantclearance mechanism. According to this framework, systemic clearance of class 1B and 3B drugs is likely determined by the OATP-mediated hepatic uptake. Class 3Aand 4 drugs, and certain class 3B drugs, are predominantly cleared by renal,wherein, OAT1, OAT3, OCT2, and MATE proteins could contribute to their activerenal secretion. Intestinal efflux and uptake transporters largely influence the oral pharmacokinetics of class 3A, 3B, and 4 drugs. We discuss the paradigm ofapplying the ECCS framework in mapping the role of clinically relevant drugtransporters in early discovery and development; thereby implementing the rightstrategy to allow optimization of drug exposure and evaluation of clinical riskdue to DDIs and pharmacogenomics.Copyright © 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and ExperimentalTherapeutics.DOI: 10.1124/dmd.117.080044 PMID: 29496721 