109. Phytomedicine. 2018 Feb 1;40:98-105. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.01.005.Early LC3 lipidation induced by d-limonene does not rely on mTOR inhibition, ERK activation and ROS production and it is associated with reduced clonogeniccapacity of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells.Berliocchi L(1), Chiappini C(1), Adornetto A(2), Gentile D(1), Cerri S(3), Russo R(2), Bagetta G(4), Corasaniti MT(5).Author information: (1)Department of Health Sciences, University "Magna Graecia" of Catanzaro, CampusUniversitario "Salvatore Venuta", V Livello Edificio delle Bioscienze, VialeEuropa, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy.(2)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, Section ofPreclinical and Translational Pharmacology, University of Calabria, 87036 Rende(Cosenza), Italy.(3)Center for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, C. Mondino NationalNeurological Institute, 27100 Pavia, Italy.(4)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, Section ofPreclinical and Translational Pharmacology, University of Calabria, 87036 Rende(Cosenza), Italy. Electronic address: g.bagetta@unical.it.(5)Department of Health Sciences, University "Magna Graecia" of Catanzaro, CampusUniversitario "Salvatore Venuta", V Livello Edificio delle Bioscienze, VialeEuropa, 88100 Catanzaro, Italy. Electronic address: mtcorasa@unicz.it.BACKGROUND: d-Limonene is a natural monoterpene abundant in Citrus essentialoils. It is endowed with several biological activities, including inhibition ofcarcinogenesis and promotion of tumour regression. Recently, d-limonene has been shown to modulate autophagic markers in vitro at concentrations found in vivo, inclinical pharmacokinetic studies. Autophagy is an intracellular catabolic processserving as both an adaptive metabolic response and a quality control mechanism.Because autophagy defects have been linked to a wide range of human pathologies, including neurodegeneration and cancer, there is a need for new pharmacologicaltools to control deregulated autophagy.PURPOSE: To better understand the effects of d-limonene on autophagy, to identifythe molecular mechanisms through which this monoterpene rapidly triggers LC3lipidation and to evaluate the role for autophagy in long-term effects ofd-limonene.METHODS: Human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma, HepG2 hepatocellular carcinoma and MCF7breast cancer cells were used. Endogenous LC3-II levels were evaluated by westernblotting. Autophagic flux assay was performed using bafilomycin A1 andchloroquine. Intracellular distribution of LC3 protein was studied by confocalmicroscopy analysis of LC3B-GFP transduced cells. Expression oflysosomal-membrane protein LAMP-1 was assessed by immunofluorescence analysis.Phosphorylated levels of downstream substrates of mTOR kinase (p70S6 kinase,4E-BP1, and ULK1) and ERK were analyzed by western blotting. Production ofreactive oxygen species (ROS) was assessed by live confocal microscopy of cellsloaded with CellROX® Green Reagent. Clonogenic assay was used to evaluate theability of treated cells to proliferate and form colonies.RESULTS: LC3 lipidation promoted by d-limonene correlates with autophagosomeformation and stimulation of basal autophagy. LC3 lipidation does not rely oninhibition of mTOR kinase, which instead appears to be transiently activated. In addition, d-limonene rapidly activates ERK and stimulates ROS generation, yetnone of these events is implicated in lipidation of LC3, which was only partlyreduced by chelation of intracellular calcium. The early LC3 lipidation inducedby d-limonene is associated with inhibition of clonogenic capacity which isreverted by the autophagy inhibitor chloroquine.CONCLUSIONS: d-Limonene rapidly stimulates the autophagic flux in cultured cancercells, which could be usefully exploited for therapeutic purposes.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.01.005 PMID: 29496180  [Indexed for MEDLINE]