48. Acta Biomater. 2018 Apr 15;71:61-71. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.02.022. Epub 2018Mar 1.Cancer cells biomineralize ionic gold into nanoparticles-microplates viasecreting defense proteins with specific gold-binding peptides.Singh AV(1), Jahnke T(2), Kishore V(3), Park BW(3), Batuwangala M(3), Bill J(2), Sitti M(3).Author information: (1)Physical Intelligence Department, Max Planck Institute for IntelligentSystems, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany. Electronic address: avsingh@is.mpg.de.(2)Institute for Materials Science, University of Stuttgart, Heisenbergstr. 3,70569 Stuttgart, Germany.(3)Physical Intelligence Department, Max Planck Institute for IntelligentSystems, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany.Cancer cells have the capacity to synthesize nanoparticles (NPs). The detailedmechanism of this process is not very well documented. We report the mechanism ofbiomineralization of aqueous gold chloride into NPs and microplates in thebreast-cancer cell line MCF7. Spherical gold NPs are synthesized in these cellsin the presence of serum in the culture media by the reduction of HAuCl4. In the absence of serum, the cells exhibit gold microplate formation throughseed-mediate growth albeit slower reduction. The structural characteristics ofthe two types of NPs under different media conditions were confirmed usingscanning electron microscopy (SEM); crystallinity and metallic properties wereassessed with transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and x-ray photoelectronspectroscopy (XPS). Gold-reducing proteins, related to cell stress initiate thebiomineralization of HAuCl4 in cells (under serum free conditions) as confirmedby infrared (IR) spectroscopy. MCF7 cells undergo irreversible replicativesenescence when exposed to a high concentration of ionic gold and converselyremain in a dormant reversible quiescent state when exposed to a low goldconcentration. The latter cellular state was achievable in the presence of therho/ROCK inhibitor Y-27632. Proteomic analysis revealed consistent expression of specific proteins under serum and serum-free conditions. A high-throughputproteomic approach to screen gold-reducing proteins and peptide sequences wasutilized and validated by quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation(QCM-D).STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Cancer cells are known to synthesize goldnanoparticles and microstructures, which are promising for bioimaging and othertherapeutic applications. However, the detailed mechanism of suchbiomineralization process is not well understood yet. Herein, we demonstrate thatcancer cells exposed to gold ions (grown in serum/serum-free conditions) secrete shock and stress-related proteins with specific gold-binding/reducingpolypeptides. Cells undergo reversible senescence and can recover normalphysiology when treated with the senescence inhibitor depending on culturecondition. The use of mammalian cells as microincubators for synthesis of suchparticles could have potential influence on their uptake and biocompatibility.This study has important implications for in-situ reduction of ionic gold toanisotropic micro-nanostructures that could be used in-vivo clinical applicationsand tumor photothermal therapy.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.02.022 PMID: 29499399 