155. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2018 Mar;143(5):309-315. doi: 10.1055/s-0043-106885. Epub2018 Mar 5.[Exercise and Physical Activity During and after Cancer - Who Benefits most, Whatis Proven?][Article in German]Steindorf K, Schmidt ME, Zimmer P.A growing number of literature reports positive effects of physical activity and exercise. These effects concern prevention, mortality and progress of cancer.Furthermore they show a reduction of disease- and treatment-specific sideeffects, which implies a better patients' quality of life. Evidence shows adecreased mortality risk in patients with physically active cancer of colon,breast, ovaries and prostate. Activity recommendations for patients with cancerdo not differ from those for healthy persons. However, a decrease in physicalactivity can be observed in many cancer patients after diagnosis, and this factconcludes to a reduced physical capacity - although just physical capacity helps to overcome the burden of medical treatment and to recover. In fact, tailoredexercise programs can counteract a decrease in physical capacity successfully.Further they reduce side effects such as fatigue, incontinence and lymphedema.Moreover, first studies report a positive influence on: chemotherapy-inducedpolyneuropathies, cancer-related cognitive impairments, bone health andsleep. Finally, an enormous number of investigations showed that exerciseinterventions can improve psychosocial factors (e. g. mood and self-esteem).Except for very few conditions, such as extremely impaired blood cell counts and days when cardio- or nephrotoxic drugs are given, physical activity should berecommended. Especially during medical treatment, physicians and therapists areprompted to interact closely in order to prevent general activity prohibitions.Physical activity and exercise programs represent a unique and low-cost chancefor cancer patients to influence the course of their own disease positively. Moreeffort is necessary to improve professional activity offers for cancer patientsand survivors and to specify activity recommendations.© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-106885 PMID: 29506297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]