169. BMC Bioinformatics. 2018 Feb 19;19(Suppl 1):42. doi: 10.1186/s12859-018-2016-6.BRCA-Pathway: a structural integration and visualization system of TCGA breastcancer data on KEGG pathways.Kim I(1), Choi S(1), Kim S(2)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University, 1Gwanak-ro, Seoul, 08826, Korea.(2)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University, 1Gwanak-ro, Seoul, 08826, Korea. sunkim.bioinfo@snu.ac.kr.(3)Interdisciplinary Program in Bioinformatics, Seoul National University, 1Gwanak-ro, Seoul, 08826, Korea. sunkim.bioinfo@snu.ac.kr.(4)Bioinformatics Institute, Seoul National University, 1 Gwanak-ro, Seoul,08826, Korea. sunkim.bioinfo@snu.ac.kr.BACKGROUND: Bioinformatics research for finding biological mechanisms can be doneby analysis of transcriptome data with pathway based interpretation. Therefore,researchers have tried to develop tools to analyze transcriptome data withpathway based interpretation. Over the years, the amount of omics data has becomehuge, e.g., TCGA, and the data types to be analyzed have come in many varieties, including mutations, copy number variations, and transcriptome. We also need toconsider a complex relationship with regulators of genes, particularlyTranscription Factors(TF). However, there has not been a system for pathway basedexploration and analysis of TCGA multi-omics data. In this reason, We havedeveloped a web based system BRCA-Pathway to fulfill the need for pathway basedanalysis of TCGA multi-omics data.RESULTS: BRCA-Pathway is a structured integration and visual exploration systemof TCGA breast cancer data on KEGG pathways. For data integration, a relationaldatabase is designed and used to integrate multi-omics data of TCGA-BRCA, KEGGpathway data, Hallmark gene sets, transcription factors, driver genes, and PAM50 subtypes. For data exploration, multi-omics data such as SNV, CNV and geneexpression can be visualized simultaneously in KEGG pathway maps, together withtranscription factors-target genes (TF-TG) correlation and relationships amongcancer driver genes. In addition, 'Pathways summary' and 'Oncoprint' with mutual exclusivity sort can be generated dynamically with a request by the user. Data inBRCA-Pathway can be downloaded by REST API for further analysis.CONCLUSIONS: BRCA-Pathway helps researchers navigate omics data towardspotentially important genes, regulators, and discover complex patterns involving mutations, CNV, and gene expression data of various patient groups in thebiological pathway context. In addition, mutually exclusive genomic alterationpatterns in a specific pathway can be generated. BRCA-Pathway can provide anintegrative perspective on the breast cancer omics data, which can helpresearchers discover new insights on the biological mechanisms of breast cancer.DOI: 10.1186/s12859-018-2016-6 PMCID: PMC5836821PMID: 29504910 