181. Front Genet. 2018 Feb 16;8:236. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2017.00236. eCollection 2017.Correlations between Risk Factors for Breast Cancer and Genetic Instability inCancer Patients-A Clinical Perspective Study.Paz MFCJ(1), de Alencar MVOB(1), Gomes Junior AL(1)(2), da Conceição MachadoK(1), Islam MT(1)(3), Ali ES(4), Shill MC(5), Ahmed MI(6), Uddin SJ(6), da MataAMOF(1), de Carvalho RM(1), da Conceição Machado K(1), Sobral ALP(7), da SilvaFCC(8), de Castro E Souza JM(8), Arcanjo DDR(9), Ferreira PMP(1)(9), MishraSK(10), da Silva J(11), de Carvalho Melo-Cavalcante AA(1).Author information: (1)Postgraduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences, Federal University of Piauí, Teresina, Brazil.(2)Biomedicine Department, UNINOVAFAPI University, Teresina, Brazil.(3)Department of Pharmacy, Southern University Bangladesh, Chittagong,Bangladesh.(4)School of Medicine, Flinders University, Adelaide, SA, Australia.(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, North South University, Dhaka,Bangladesh.(6)Pharmacy Discipline, Life Science School, Khulna University, Khulna,Bangladesh.(7)University Hospital, Federal University of Piauí, Teresina, Brazil.(8)Department of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Piauí, Picos, Brazil.(9)Department of Biophysics and Physiology, Universidade Federal do Piauí,Teresina, Brazil.(10)Cancer Biology Laboratory, School of Biological Sciences (Zoology), Dr.Harisingh Gour Central University, Sagar, India.(11)Program in Cellular and Molecular Biology Applied to Health Sciences,Universidade Luterana do Brasil, Canoas, Brazil.Molecular epidemiological studies have identified several risk factors linking tothe genes and external factors in the pathogenesis of breast cancer. In thissense, genetic instability caused by DNA damage and DNA repair inefficiencies areimportant molecular events for the diagnosis and prognosis of therapies.Therefore, the objective of this study was to analyze correlation betweensociocultural, occupational, and lifestyle risk factors with levels of geneticinstability in non-neoplastic cells of breast cancer patients. Total 150individuals were included in the study that included 50 breast cancer patientssubmitted to chemotherapy (QT), 50 breast cancer patients submitted toradiotherapy (RT), and 50 healthy women without any cancer. Cytogeneticbiomarkers for apoptosis and DNA damage were evaluated in samples of buccalepithelial and peripheral blood cells through micronuclei and comet assay tests. Elder age patients (61-80 years) had higher levels of apoptosis (catriolysis bykaryolysis) and DNA damage at the diagnosis (baseline damage) with increased celldamage during QT and especially during RT. We also reported the increasedfrequencies of cytogenetic biomarkers in patients who were exposed to ionizingradiation as well as for alcoholism and smoking. QT and RT induced high levels offragmentation (karyorrhexis) and nuclear dissolution (karyolysis) and DNA damage.Correlations were observed between age and karyorrhexis at diagnosis; smoking andkaryolysis during RT; and radiation and karyolysis during QT. These correlations indicate that risk factors may also influence the genetic instability innon-neoplastic cells caused to the patients during cancer therapies.DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2017.00236 PMCID: PMC5821102PMID: 29503660 