146. BMC Cancer. 2018 Mar 5;18(1):250. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4172-5.Threat of biographical disruption: the gendered construction and experience ofinfertility following cancer for women and men.Ussher JM(1), Perz J(2); Australian Cancer and Fertility Study Team (ACFST).Collaborators: Miller A, Patterson P, Wain G, Hobbs K, Mason C, Kirsten L,Weisberg E, Butt A, Cummings J, Nattress K, Parton C.Author information: (1)Translational Health Research Institute, School of Medicine, Western SydneyUniversity, Locked Bag 1797, Penrith South, 2751, Australia.j.ussher@westernsydney.edu.au.(2)Translational Health Research Institute, School of Medicine, Western SydneyUniversity, Locked Bag 1797, Penrith South, 2751, Australia.BACKGROUND: Infertility is a major concern for people with cancer and theirpartners. There have been calls for further research on the gendered nature ofpsychosocial, emotional and identity concomitants of fertility post-cancer acrosswomen and men.METHOD: The gendered construction and experience of infertility following cancer was examined through a survey of 693 women and 185 men, and in-depth one-to-oneinterviews with a subsample of survey respondents, 61 women and 17 men,purposively selected across cancer types and age groups. Thematic decompositionwas used to examine the open ended survey responses and interviews. The chisquare test for independence was used to test for group differences between womenand men on closed survey items.RESULTS: In the thematic decomposition, infertility was identified as providing a'Threat of Biographical Disruption' which impacted on life course and identity,for both women and men. Subthemes identified were: 'Parenthood as central toadulthood'; 'Infertility as a threat to gender identity'; ' Unknown fertilitystatus and delayed parenthood'; 'Feelings of loss and grief'; 'Absence ofunderstanding and support'; 'Benefit finding and renegotiation of identity'. Inthe closed survey items, the majority of women and men agreed that they hadalways 'wanted to be a parent' and that 'parenthood was a more important lifegoal than a satisfying career'. 'It is hard to feel like a true adult until youhave a child' and impact upon 'my feelings about myself as a man or a woman' was reported by both women and men, with significantly more women reporting 'I feelempty because of fertility issues'. Many participants agreed they 'couldvisualise a happy life without a child' and there is 'freedom without children'. Significantly more men than women reported that they had not discussed fertility with a health care professional.CONCLUSION: The fear of infertility following cancer, or knowledge of compromisedfertility, can have negative effects on identity and psychological wellbeing for both women and men, serving to create biographical disruption. Support fromfamily, partners and health care professionals can facilitate renegotiation ofidentity and coping.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4172-5 PMCID: PMC5836444PMID: 29506492 