138. Explore (NY). 2018 Mar - Apr;14(2):137-143. doi: 10.1016/j.explore.2017.10.008.Epub 2017 Dec 21.Investigating the Effects of the Progressive Muscle Relaxation-Guided ImageryCombination on Patients with Cancer Receiving Chemotherapy Treatment: ASystematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials.Kapogiannis A(1), Tsoli S(2), Chrousos G(1).Author information: (1)Postgraduate Course Science of Stress and Health Promotion, School ofMedicine, University of Athens, Soranou Ephession 4, GR 115-27 Athens, Greece.(2)Postgraduate Course Science of Stress and Health Promotion, School ofMedicine, University of Athens, Soranou Ephession 4, GR 115-27 Athens, Greece.Electronic address: sftsoli0@gmail.com.BACKGROUND: Previous systematic reviews indicate that progressive musclerelaxation (PMR) and guided imagery (GI) are both effective interventions todecrease the psychological impact and to alleviate the adverse events in cancerpatients undergoing chemotherapy treatment. To date, no review studies haveinvestigated the effectiveness of a combination of PMR and GI.AIM: To systematically review the current state of knowledge regarding theeffects of the PMR-GI combination on cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.METHODS: A search for relevant records was carried out in four electronicdatabases (AMED, Cochrane Library, Pubmed and Scopus). After removing theduplicates 342 publications were screened and 71 were considered as potentiallyrelevant. The flow of information of this study was in line with the PRISMAstatement. Original articles investigating the application of both PMR and GIthrough a randomized trial on patients receiving chemotherapy were included.Those using PMR or GI alone and those combining other techniques together withPMR and GI were excluded. The trials' quality was assessed using the Jadad Scale.RESULTS: Eight papers reporting the results of seven independent trials werefinally included. All of them included only breast cancer patients, apart from a single trial using a mixed sample of breast and prostate cancer patients. Sevenof the included trials reported beneficial effects on mental state (mood,anxiety, and depression) and on toxicity (nausea and vomiting). Three trialsreported an effect on biomarkers (heart rate, blood pressure, cortisol, andimmunity). Four trials scored three of five points on the Jadad Scale, two trialsscored two points and a single trial scored zero.CONCLUSIONS: Independent trials indicate that the PMR-GI combination is aneffective way to tackle the impact of nausea and vomiting and to improvepatients' mental state. However, studies involving other types of primary tumors would be useful because seven of the eight clinical trials only included breastcancer patients. Future research on the identification of potential effects ondisease-related parameters (e.g., cytokines and disease-recurrence) and onpatient survival is highly needed.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.explore.2017.10.008 PMID: 29506956 