12. J Proteomics. 2018 Mar 1. pii: S1874-3919(18)30083-6. doi:10.1016/j.jprot.2018.02.026. [Epub ahead of print]SWATH mass spectrometry as a tool for quantitative profiling of the matrisome.Krasny L(1), Bland P(2), Kogata N(2), Wai P(3), Howard BA(2), Natrajan RC(3),Huang PH(4).Author information: (1)Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, SW36JB, UK.(2)The Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research Centre, Division of Breast CancerResearch, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, SW3 6JB, UK.(3)Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, SW36JB, UK; The Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research Centre, Division of BreastCancer Research, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, SW3 6JB, UK.(4)Division of Molecular Pathology, The Institute of Cancer Research, London, SW36JB, UK. Electronic address: paul.huang@icr.ac.uk.Proteomic analysis of extracellular matrix (ECM) and ECM-associated proteins,collectively known as the matrisome, is a challenging task due to the inherentcomplexity and insolubility of these proteins. Here we present sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra mass spectrometry (SWATH MS) as a tool for the quantitative analysis of matrisomal proteins in bothnon-enriched and ECM enriched tissue without the need for prior fractionation.Utilising a spectral library containing 201 matrisomal proteins, we compared the performance and reproducibility of SWATH MS over conventional data-dependentanalysis mass spectrometry (DDA MS) in unfractionated murine lung and liver.SWATH MS conferred a 15-20% increase in reproducible peptide identificationacross replicate experiments in both tissue types and identified 54% morematrisomal proteins in the liver versus DDA MS. We further use SWATH MS toevaluate the quantitative changes in matrisome content that accompanies ECMenrichment. Our data shows that ECM enrichment led to a systematic increase incore matrisomal proteins but resulted in significant losses inmatrisome-associated proteins including the cathepsins and proteins of the S100family. Our proof-of-principle study demonstrates the utility of SWATH MS as aversatile tool for in-depth characterisation of the matrisome in unfractionatedand non-enriched tissues.SIGNIFICANCE: The matrisome is a complex network ofextracellular matrix (ECM) and ECM-associated proteins that provides scaffolding function to tissues and plays important roles in the regulation of fundamentalcellular processes. However, due to its inherent complexity and insolubility,proteomic studies of the matrisome typically require the application ofenrichment workflows prior to MS analysis. Such enrichment strategies often lead to losses in soluble matrisome-associated components. In this study, we presentsequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra massspectrometry (SWATH MS) as a tool for the quantitative analysis of matrisomalproteins. We show that SWATH MS provides a more reproducible coverage of thematrisome compared to data-dependent analysis (DDA) MS. We also demonstrate that SWATH MS is capable of accurate quantification of matrisomal proteins withoutprior ECM enrichment and fractionation, which may simplify sample handlingworkflows and avoid losses in matrisome-associated proteins commonly linked toECM enrichment.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jprot.2018.02.026 PMID: 29501709 