150. BMC Bioinformatics. 2018 Mar 5;19(1):81. doi: 10.1186/s12859-018-2085-6.IntLIM: integration using linear models of metabolomics and gene expression data.Siddiqui JK(1), Baskin E(1), Liu M(1), Cantemir-Stone CZ(1), Zhang B(1)(2),Bonneville R(3)(4), McElroy JP(5), Coombes KR(1), Mathé EA(6).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedical Informatics, College of Medicine, The Ohio StateUniversity, Columbus, OH, USA.(2)Biomedical Engineering Undegraduate Program, The Ohio State University,Columbus, OH, 43210, USA.(3)Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH,USA.(4)Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Internal Medicine, The Ohio StateUniversity, Columbus, OH, USA.(5)Center for Biostatistics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA.(6)Department of Biomedical Informatics, College of Medicine, The Ohio StateUniversity, Columbus, OH, USA. ewy.mathe@osumc.edu.BACKGROUND: Integration of transcriptomic and metabolomic data improvesfunctional interpretation of disease-related metabolomic phenotypes, andfacilitates discovery of putative metabolite biomarkers and gene targets. Forthis reason, these data are increasingly collected in large (> 100 participants) cohorts, thereby driving a need for the development of user-friendly andopen-source methods/tools for their integration. Of note, clinical/translational studies typically provide snapshot (e.g. one time point) gene and metaboliteprofiles and, oftentimes, most metabolites measured are not identified. Thus, in these types of studies, pathway/network approaches that take into account thecomplexity of transcript-metabolite relationships may neither be applicable norreadily uncover novel relationships. With this in mind, we propose a simplelinear modeling approach to capture disease-(or other phenotype) specificgene-metabolite associations, with the assumption that co-regulation patternsreflect functionally related genes and metabolites.RESULTS: The proposed linear model, metabolite ~ gene + phenotype +gene:phenotype, specifically evaluates whether gene-metabolite relationshipsdiffer by phenotype, by testing whether the relationship in one phenotype issignificantly different from the relationship in another phenotype (via astatistical interaction gene:phenotype p-value). Statistical interaction p-valuesfor all possible gene-metabolite pairs are computed and significant pairs arethen clustered by the directionality of associations (e.g. strong positiveassociation in one phenotype, strong negative association in another phenotype). We implemented our approach as an R package, IntLIM, which includes auser-friendly R Shiny web interface, thereby making the integrative analysesaccessible to non-computational experts. We applied IntLIM to two previouslypublished datasets, collected in the NCI-60 cancer cell lines and in human breasttumor and non-tumor tissue, for which transcriptomic and metabolomic data areavailable. We demonstrate that IntLIM captures relevant tumor-specificgene-metabolite associations involved in known cancer-related pathways, includingglutamine metabolism. Using IntLIM, we also uncover biologically relevant novelrelationships that could be further tested experimentally.CONCLUSIONS: IntLIM provides a user-friendly, reproducible framework to integratetranscriptomic and metabolomic data and help interpret metabolomic data anduncover novel gene-metabolite relationships. The IntLIM R package is publiclyavailable in GitHub ( https://github.com/mathelab/IntLIM ) and includes auser-friendly web application, vignettes, sample data and data/code to reproduce results.DOI: 10.1186/s12859-018-2085-6 PMCID: PMC5838881PMID: 29506475 