9. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 May;101:458-477. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.02.108.Epub 2018 Mar 22.Chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer: An update.Abotaleb M(1), Kubatka P(2), Caprnda M(3), Varghese E(1), Zolakova B(4), ZuborP(5), Opatrilova R(6), Kruzliak P(7), Stefanicka P(8), Büsselberg D(9).Author information: (1)Weill Cornell Medicine in Qatar, Qatar Foundation-Education City, Doha, Qatar.(2)Department of Medical Biology, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine, ComeniusUniversity in Bratislava, Martin, Slovakia; Department of ExperimentalCarcinogenesis, Division of Oncology, Biomedical Center Martin, Jessenius Facultyof Medicine, Comenius University in Bratislava, Martin, Slovakia.(3)1st Department of Internal Medicine, Medical Faculty, Comenius University inBratislava, Bratislava, Slovakia.(4)Department of Experimental Carcinogenesis, Division of Oncology, BiomedicalCenter Martin, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine, Comenius University in Bratislava, Martin, Slovakia.(5)Clinic of Gynecology and Obsterics, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine, ComeniusUniversity in Bratislava, Martin, Slovakia.(6)Department of Chemical Drugs, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Veterinaryand Pharmaceutical Sciences, Brno, Czech Republic.(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Brothers of Mercy Hospital, Brno, CzechRepublic; 2nd Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University and St. Anne´s University Hospital, Brno, Czech Republic. Electronic address:peter.kruzliak@muni.cz.(8)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Faculty of Medicine,Comenius University and University Hospital, Antolska 11, 851 07, Bratislava,Slovakia. Electronic address: patrikstefanicka@yahoo.com.(9)Weill Cornell Medicine in Qatar, Qatar Foundation-Education City, Doha, Qatar.Electronic address: dib2015@qatar-med.cornell.edu.Breast cancer is the second greatest cause of death among women worldwide; itcomprises a group of heterogeneous diseases that evolves due to uncontrolledcellular growth and differentiation and the loss of normal programmed cell death.There are different molecular sub-types of breast cancer; therefore, variousoptions are selected for treatment of different forms of metastatic breastcancer. However, the use of chemotherapeutic drugs is usually accompanied bydeleterious side effects and the development of drug resistance when applied for a longer period. This review offers a classification of these chemotherapeuticagents according to their modes of action and therefore improves theunderstanding of molecular targets that are affected during treatment. Overall,it will allow the clinician to identify more specific targets to increase theeffectiveness of a drug and to reduce general toxicity, resistance and other sideeffects.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.02.108 PMID: 29501768 