143. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2018 Feb 28;64(3):97-102. doi:10.14715/cmb/2018.64.3.16.Urtica dioica inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis by targeting Ornithinedecarboxylase and Adenosine deaminase as key regulatory enzymes in adenosine and polyamines homeostasis in human breast cancer cell lines.Fattahi S(1), Ghadami E(2), Asouri M(3), Motevalizadeh Ardekanid A(4),Akhavan-Niaki H(1).Author information: (1)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Health Research Institute,Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.(2)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Babol University of MedicalSciences, Babol, Iran.(3)North Research Center of Pasteur Institute, Amol, Iran.(4)National Institute of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (NIGEB), Tehran,Iran.Breast cancer is a heterogeneous and multifactorial disease with variable diseaseprogression risk, and treatment response. Urtica dioica is a traditional herbused as an adjuvant therapeutic agent in cancer. In the present study, we haveevaluated the effects of the aqueous extract of Urtica dioica on Adenosinedeaminase (ADA) and Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC1) gene expression in MCF-7,MDA-MB-231, two breast cancer cell lines being estrogen receptor positive andestrogen receptor negative, respectively.  Cell lines were cultured in suitablemedia. After 24 h, different concentrations of the extract were added and after72 h, ADA and ODC1 gene expression as well as BCL2 and BAX apoptotic genes wereassessed by Taqman real time PCR assay. Cells viability was assessed by MTTassay, and apoptosis was also evaluated at cellular level. The intra andextracellular levels of ODC1 and ADA enzymes were evaluated by ELISA. Resultsshowed differential expression of ADA and ODC1 genes in cancer cell lines. InMCF-7 cell line, the expression level of ADA was upregulated in a dose-dependent manner but its expression did not change in MDA-MB cell line. ODC1 expression wasincreased in both examined cell lines. Also, increased level of the apoptoticBAX/BCL-2 ratio was detected in MCF-7 cells. These results demonstrated thatUrtica dioica induces apoptosis in breast cancer cells by influencing ODC1 andADA genes expression, and estrogen receptors. The different responses observedwith these cell lines could be due to the interaction of Urtica dioica as aphytoestrogen with the estrogen receptor.PMID: 29506637 