114. J Appl Clin Med Phys. 2018 May;19(3):291-300. doi: 10.1002/acm2.12297. Epub 2018 Mar 6.Design and development of a phantom for tomosynthesis with potential forautomated analysis via the cloud.Goodenough D(1)(2), Levy J(3)(4), Olafsdottir H(4)(5), Olafsson I(4)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, The George Washington University, NW Washington, DC, USA.(2)The Institute For Radiological Image Sciences, Myersville, MD, USA.(3)The Phantom Laboratory, Salem, NY, USA.(4)Image Owl, Salem, NY, USA.(5)Raförninn, Reykjavík, Iceland.This paper describes Development of a Phantom for Tomosynthesis with Potentialfor Automated Analysis via the Cloud. Several studies are underway to investigatethe effectiveness of Tomosynthesis Mammographic Image Screening, including thelarge TMIST project as funded by the National Cancer Institutehttps://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/treatment/clinical-trials/nci-supported/tmist. The development of the phantom described in this paper follows initiatives fromthe FDA, the AAPM TG245 task group, and European Reference Organization (EUREF)for Quality Assured Breast Screening and Diagnostic Services Committee reportnoting, that no formal endorsement nor recommendation for use has been sought, orgranted by any of these groups. This paper reports on the possibility of usingthis newly developed Tomosynthesis Phantom for Quality Assurance, field testingof image performance, including remote monitoring of DBT system performance,e.g., via transmission over the cloud. The phantom includes tests for: phantompositioning and alignment (important for remote analysis), scan geometry (x andy), chest wall offset, scan slice width and Slice Sensitivity Profile (SSP(z))slice geometry (slice width), scan slice incrementation (z), z axis geometrybead, low contrast detectability using low contrast spheres, spatial resolutionvia Point Spread Function (PSF), Image uniformity, Signal to Noise Ratio (SNR),and Contrast to Noise Ratio (CNR) via readings over an Aluminum square. Thephantom is designed for use with automated analysis via transmission of imagesover the cloud and the analysis package includes test of positioning accuracy(roll, pitch, and yaw). Data are shown from several commercial TomosynthesisScanners including Fuji, GE, Hologic, IMS-Giotti, and Siemens; however, the focusof this paper is on phantom design, and not in general aimed at direct commercialcomparisons, and wherever possible the identity of the data is anonymized.Results of automated analysis of the phantom are shown, and it is demonstratedthat reliable analysis of such a phantom can be achieved remotely, includingtransmission of data through the cloud.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics published byWiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Association of Physicists inMedicine.DOI: 10.1002/acm2.12297 PMCID: PMC5978640PMID: 29508535 