Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.122. Public Health Rev. 2018 Mar 2;39:7. doi: 10.1186/s40985-018-0080-0. eCollection2018.Cancer screening recommendations: an international comparison of high incomecountries.Ebell MH(1), Thai TN(2), Royalty KJ(3).Author information: (1)1College of Public Health, University of Georgia, 125 Miller Hall, UGA Health Sciences, GA 30602 Athens, Georgia USA.(2)2Department of Pharmaceutical Outcomes and Policy, College of Pharmacy,University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida USA.(3)Augusta University/University of Georgia Medical Partnership Campus, Athens,Georgia USA.Background: Recommendations regarding cancer screening vary from country tocountry, and may also vary within countries depending on the organization making the recommendations. The goal of this study was to summarize the cancer screeningrecommendations from the 21 countries with the highest per capita spending onhealthcare.Main body: Cancer screening guidelines were identified for each country based on a review of the medical literature, internet searches, and contact with keyinformants in most countries. The highest level recommendation was identified foreach country, in the order of national recommendation, cancer societyrecommendation, or medical specialty society recommendation. Breast cancerscreening recommendations were generally consistent across countries, mostcommonly recommending mammography biennially from ages 50 to 69 or 70 years. Inthe USA, specialty societies generally offered more intensive screeningrecommendations. All countries also recommend cervical cancer screening, althoughthere is some heterogeneity regarding the test (cytology or HPV or both) and the age of initiation and screening interval. Most countries recommend colorectalcancer screening using fecal immunochemical (FIT) testing, while only sevencountries recommend general or selective screening for prostate cancer, and asimilar number explicitly recommend against screening for prostate cancer.Screening for lung and skin cancer is only recommended by a few countries.Greater per capita healthcare expenditures are not associated with greaterscreening intensity, with the possible exception of prostate cancer.Conclusions: Guidelines for cancer screening differ between countries, with areasof commonality but also clear differences. Recommendations have importantcommonalities for well-established cancer screening programs such as breast andcervical cancer, with greater variation between countries regarding prostate,colorectal, lung, and skin cancer screening. Ideally, recommendations should bemade by a professionally diverse, independent panel of experts that makeevidence-based recommendations regarding screening based on the benefits, harms, and available resources in that country's context.DOI: 10.1186/s40985-018-0080-0 PMCID: PMC5833039PMID: 29507820 