133. Curr Oncol. 2018 Feb;25(1):e59-e72. doi: 10.3747/co.25.3766. Epub 2018 Feb 28.Alberta CancerBridges development of a care plan evaluation measure.Giese-Davis J(1)(2), Sisler J(3), Zhong L(1)(2), Brandelli Y(1)(2), McCormickJL(1)(2), Railton C(4), Shirt L(5), Lau H(6), Hao D(6), Chobanuk J(4), WalleyB(7), Joy AA(8), Taylor A(4)(8), Carlson L(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Division of Psychosocial Oncology, University ofCalgary, Calgary, Alberta.(2)Psychosocial Resources, Tom Baker Cancer Center, Alberta Health Services,Calgary, Alberta.(3)Department of Family Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba.(4)Department of Oncology, University of Calgary, Tom Baker Cancer Centre,Calgary, Alberta.(5)Palliative Consult Service-Calgary Zone Urban, Alberta Health Services,Calgary, Alberta.(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Head and Neck Tumour Group, Tom Baker CancerCenter, Calgary.(7)Comprehensive Breast Care Program (cbcp), Community Oncology, Alberta HealthServices-Cancer Care, Edmonton, Alberta.(8)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology, University of Alberta,Cross Cancer Institute, Edmonton, Alberta; and.Background: No standardized measures specifically assess cancer survivors' andhealthcare providers' experience of Survivor Care Plans (scps). We sought todevelop two care plan evaluation (cpe) measures, one for survivors (cpe-s) andone for healthcare providers (cpe-p), examine initial psychometric qualities inAlberta, and assess generalizability in Manitoba, Canada.Methods: We developed the initial measures using convenience samples of breast (n= 35) and head and neck (n = 18) survivors who received scps at the end of activecancer-centre treatment. After assessing Alberta's scp concordance with Instituteof Medicine (iom) recommendations using a published coding scheme, we examinedpsychometric qualities for the cpe-s and cpe-p. We examined generalizability inManitoba, Canada, with colorectal survivors discharged to primary care providers for follow-up (n = 75).Results: We demonstrated acceptable internal consistency for the cpe-s and cpe-p subscales and total score after eliminating one item per subscale for cpe-s, two for cpe-p, resulting in revised scales with four 7-item and 6-item subscales,respectively. Subscale scores correlated highly indicating that for each measure the total score may be the most reliable and valid. We provide initial cpe-sdiscriminant, convergent, and predictive validity using the total score. Usingthe Manitoba sample, initial psychometrics similarly indicated goodgeneralizability across differences in tumour groups, scp, and location.Conclusions: We recommend the revised cpe-s and cpe-p for further use anddevelopment. Studies documenting the creation and standardization of scpevaluations are few, and we recommend further development of patient experiencemeasures to improve both clinical practice and the specificity of researchquestions.DOI: 10.3747/co.25.3766 PMCID: PMC5832293PMID: 29507497 