66. Biomed Microdevices. 2018 Mar 6;20(2):27. doi: 10.1007/s10544-018-0260-1.A novel approach to producing uniform 3-D tumor spheroid constructs usingultrasound treatment.Karamikamkar S(1)(2), Behzadfar E(3), Cheung KC(4).Author information: (1)BioMEMS, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University ofBritish Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada.(2)Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, M5S 3G8, Canada.(3)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of BritishColumbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z3, Canada.(4)BioMEMS, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University ofBritish Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada. kcheung@ece.ubc.ca.Producing three-dimensional (3-D) multicellular tumor spheroids (TSs) is valuablefor characterizing anticancer drugs since they provide a more representativemodel of the 3-D in vivo tumor than conventional two-dimensional (2-D) monolayer culture. The interaction of tumor cells with the extracellular matrix (ECM) in a 3-D culture environment is more similar to a tumor in vivo than in a 2-Denvironment; cell-cell and cell-ECM interaction can influence cell behaviour,such as in response to drug treatment. In vitro tumor spheroid models have beendeveloped using microfluidic systems to generate 3-D hydrogel beads containingcomponents of alginate and ECM protein, such as collagen, with high uniformityand throughput. Cell-laden hydrogel droplets are formed using a flow focusingprocess wherein the hydrogel precursors should be a homogeneous mixture. Duringgelation of the droplets into beads, the alginate acts as a fast gellingcomponent helping to maintain the spherical shape of beads and preventingcoalescence as the temperature-sensitive collagen I component gels more slowly.To produce uniform hydrogel droplets using the microfluidic flow focusing system,the mixtures must be homogeneous. However, collagen's sensitivity to temperature can lead to formation of chunks of collagen gel inside of the mixture, causingthe mixture to become non-uniform and risking chip clogging. In order to overcomethis limitation, previous approaches have used a cooling system during beadencapsulation while tumor cells were also present in the mixture, but thisprocedure can contribute to a delay in cell proliferation. Here a novel yetsimple method is developed to prepare homogeneous pre-bead-encapsulation-mixturescontaining collagen type I through ultrasonication. This method allows thecultivation of homogenous TS cultures with high uniformity and compact structure,and not only maintains cell viability but also the proliferation of cells inalginate/collagen hydrogel bead cultures. Depending on the sonication parameters,time and temperature, collagen can form small sized fibrils to thick fibers.Here, the mixtures containing collagen are assessed for morphology of collagenfibers/fibrils, cell viability, and proliferation. Human source Michigan CancerFoundation-7 (MCF-7) breast cancer cells are successfully incorporated intoalginate/collagen mixtures, followed by sonication, and then bead production.After bead gelation, the encapsulated MCF-7 cells remained viable andproliferated to form uniform TSs when the beads contained alginate and collagen. Results indicate that ultrasound treatment (UST) provides a powerful technique tochange the structure of collagen from fiber to fibril, and to disperse collagenfibers in the mixture homogeneously for an application to generate uniformhydrogel beads and spheroids while not inhibiting cell proliferation.DOI: 10.1007/s10544-018-0260-1 PMID: 29511829 