194. Magn Reson Med. 2018 Mar 7. doi: 10.1002/mrm.27157. [Epub ahead of print]CEST-MRI studies of cells loaded with lanthanide shift reagents.Ferrauto G(1), Di Gregorio E(1), Delli Castelli D(1), Aime S(1).Author information: (1)Molecular Imaging Center, Department of Molecular Biotechnologies and HealthSciences, University of Torino, Italy.PURPOSE: Magnetic resonance imaging has been used extensively to track in vivoimplanted cells that have been previously labeled with relaxation enhancers.However, this approach is not suitable to track multiple cell populations, as it may lead to confounding results in case the contrast agent is released from thelabeled cells. This paper demonstrates how the use of CEST agents can overcomethese issues. After encapsulating paramagnetic lanthanide shift reagents, we may shift the absorption frequency of the intracellular water resonance (δIn ), thus generating frequency-encoding CEST responsive cells that can be visualized in theMR image by applying the proper RF irradiation.METHODS: Eu-HPDO3A, Dy-HPDO3A, and Tm-HPDO3A were used as shift reagents forlabeling murine breast cancer cells and murine macrophages by hypotonic swelling and pinocytosis. The CEST-MR images were acquired at 7 T, and the saturationtransfer effect was measured. Samples at different dilution of cells wereanalyzed to quantify the detection threshold. In vitro experiments of cellproliferation were carried out. Finally, murine breast cancer cells were injectedsubcutaneously in mice, and MR images were acquired to assess the proliferationindex in vivo.RESULTS: It was found that entrapment of the paramagnetic complexes intoendosomes (i.e., using the pinocytosis route) leads to an enhanced shift of theintracellular water resonance. δIn appears to be proportional to the effectivemagnetic moment (μeff ) and to the concentration of the loaded lanthanidecomplex. Moreover, a higher shift is present when the complexes are entrapped in the endosomes. The cell proliferation index was assessed both in vitro and invivo by evaluating the reduction of δIn value in the days after the celllabeling.CONCLUSION: Cells can be visualized by CEST MRI after loading with paramagneticshift reagent, by exploiting the large ensemble of the properly shiftedintracellular water molecules. A better performance is obtained when thecomplexes are entrapped inside the endosomes. The observed (δIn ) value isstrongly correlated to the chemical nature of the probe, and to its concentrationand cellular localization. Two applications of this method are reported in thispaper: (1) for in vivo cell visualization and (2) for the monitoring of thecellular proliferation process, as this method is accompanied by a change in δIn that may be exploited as a longitudinal reporter of the proliferation rate.© 2018 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mrm.27157 PMID: 29516549 