94. Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Feb 27. doi: 10.4143/crt.2017.579. [Epub ahead of print]PTEN Mutation Identified in Patient Diagnosed with Simultaneous Multiple Cancers.Won HS(1), Chang ED(2), Na SJ(3), Whang IY(4), Lee DS(5), You SH(6), Kim YS(6),Kim JS(6).Author information: (1)Department of Internal Medicine, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, College ofMedicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Uijeongbu, Korea.(2)Department of Hospital Pathology, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, College ofMedicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Uijeongbu, Korea.(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, College ofMedicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Uijeongbu, Korea.(4)Department of Radiology, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine,The Catholic University of Korea, Uijeongbu, Korea.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, College ofMedicine, The Catholic University of Korea, Uijeongbu, Korea.(6)Department of Surgery, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, TheCatholic University of Korea, Uijeongbu, Korea.PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome is a spectrum of disorders characterized by unique phenotypic features including multiple hamartomas caused by mutations of thetumor suppressor gene PTEN. Cowden syndrome and Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndromeare representative diseases, and both have several common clinical features anddifferences. Because PTEN mutations are associated with an increased risk ofmalignancy including breast, thyroid, endometrial, and renal cancers, cancersurveillance is an important element of disease management. We report a germline mutation of the PTEN (c.723dupT, exon 7) identified in a young woman with asimultaneous occurrence of breast cancer, dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, andfollicular neoplasm. This case suggests that it is critical for clinicians torecognize the phenotypic features associated with these syndromes to accuratelydiagnose them and provide preventive care.DOI: 10.4143/crt.2017.579 PMID: 29510612 