39. FASEB J. 2018 Aug;32(8):4343-4355. doi: 10.1096/fj.201701315R. Epub 2018 Mar 7.Uncoupling effects of estrogen receptor α on LKB1/AMPK interaction uponadiponectin exposure in breast cancer.Mauro L(1), Naimo GD(1), Gelsomino L(1), Malivindi R(1), Bruno L(2), PellegrinoM(1), Tarallo R(3), Memoli D(3), Weisz A(3), Panno ML(1), Andò S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacy, Health, and Nutritional Sciences, University ofCalabria, Rende, Italy.(2)Department of Biology, Ecology, and Earth Sciences, University of Calabria,Rende, Italy.(3)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Genomics, Department of Medicine,Surgery, and Dentistry, Scuola Medica Salernitana, Baronissi, Italy.Adipose tissue is a metabolic and endocrine organ that secretes bioactivemolecules called adipocytokines. Among these, adiponectin has a crucial role inobesity-associated breast cancer. The key molecule of adiponectin signaling isAMPK, which is mainly activated by liver kinase B1 (LKB1). Here, we demonstrated that estrogen receptor-α (ERα)/LKB1 interaction may negatively interfere with theLKB1 capability to phosphorylate AMPK and inhibit its downstream signalingTSC2/mTOR/p70S6k. In adiponectin-treated MCF-7 cells, AMPK signaling was notworking, resulting in its downstream target acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) beingstill active. In contrast, in MDA-MB-231 cells, AMPK and ACC phosphorylation was enhanced by adiponectin, inhibiting lipogenesis and cell growth. Uponadiponectin, ERα signaling switched the energy balance of breast cancer cellstoward a lipogenic phenotype. Therefore, adiponectin played an inhibitory role onERα-negative cell growth and progression in vitro and in vivo. In contrast, lowadiponectin levels, similar to those circulating in obese patients, acted onERα-positive cells as a growth factor, stimulating proliferation. The lattereffect was blunted in vivo by high adiponectin concentration. All this may havetranslational relevance, addressing how the handling of adiponectin, as atherapeutic tool in breast cancer treatment, needs to be carefully considered in ERα-positive obese patients, where circulating levels of this adipocytokine arerelatively low. In other words, in ERα-positive breast cancer obese patients,higher adiponectin doses should be administered with respect to ERα-negativebreast cancer, also opportunely combined with antiestrogen therapy. -Mauro, L.,Naimo, G. D., Gelsomino, L., Malivindi, R., Bruno, L., Pellegrino, M., Tarallo,R., Memoli, D., Weisz, A., Panno, M. L., Andò, S. Uncoupling effects of estrogen receptor α on LKB1/AMPK interaction upon adiponectin exposure in breast cancer.DOI: 10.1096/fj.201701315R PMID: 29513571 