54. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2018 Mar;155:153-164. doi:10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.12.015. Epub 2017 Dec 12.Spatiotemporal features of DCE-MRI for breast cancer diagnosis.Banaie M(1), Soltanian-Zadeh H(2), Saligheh-Rad HR(3), Gity M(4).Author information: (1)Control and Intelligent Processing Center of Excellence (CIPCE), School ofElectrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering, University ofTehran, Tehran, Iran.(2)Control and Intelligent Processing Center of Excellence (CIPCE), School ofElectrical and Computer Engineering, College of Engineering, University ofTehran, Tehran, Iran; Image Analysis Laboratory, Departments of Radiology andResearch Administration, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI, USA. Electronicaddress: hsoltan1@hfhs.org.(3)Department of Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, School of Medicine, Tehran University of Medical Science, Tehran, Iran.(4)Advanced Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology Research Center (ADIR),Medical Imaging Center, Imam Khomeini Hospital, Tehran University of MedicalSciences, Tehran, Iran.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Breast cancer is a major cause of mortality among womenif not treated in early stages. Previous works developed non-invasive diagnosismethods using imaging data, focusing on specific sets of features that can becalled spatial features or temporal features. However, limited set of featurescarry limited information, requiring complex classification methods to diagnosethe disease. For non-invasive diagnosis, different imaging modalities can beused. DCE-MRI is one of the best imaging techniques that provides temporalinformation about the kinetics of the contrast agent in suspicious lesions along with acceptable spatial resolution.METHODS: We have extracted and studied a comprehensive set of features fromspatiotemporal space to obtain maximum available information from the DCE-MRIdata. Then, we have applied a feature fusion technique to remove commoninformation and extract a feature set with maximum information to be used by asimple classification method. We have also implemented conventional featureselection and classification methods and compared them with our proposedapproach.RESULTS: Experimental results obtained from DCE-MRI data of 26 biopsy orshort-term follow-up proven patients illustrate that the proposed methodoutperforms alternative methods. The proposed method achieves a classificationaccuracy of 99% without missing any of the malignant cases.CONCLUSIONS: The proposed method may help physicians determine the likelihood of malignancy in breast cancer using DCE-MRI without biopsy.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.12.015 PMID: 29512495 