156. Phys Med. 2018 Feb;46:25-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.12.014. Epub 2018 Jan 30.High velocity pulse biopsy device enables controllable and precise needleinsertion and high yield tissue acquisition.Schässburger KU(1), Paepke S(2), Saracco A(3), Azavedo E(4), Ekström C(5),Wiksell H(6).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: kai-uwe.schassburger@ki.se.(2)Interdisciplinary Breast Centre, Klinikum rechts der Isar der TU München,München, Germany.(3)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Division of Breast Imaging,Södersjukhuset, Stockholm, Sweden.(4)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm,Sweden.(5)Department of Pathology, Unilabs AB, Capio S:t Görans Hospital, Stockholm,Sweden.(6)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden.Minimally invasive biopsies are a cornerstone of breast cancer management withultrasound being the preferred guidance modality. New developments in breastcancer management and advances in imaging technologies bring new challenges tocurrent biopsy methodologies. A new biopsy device (NeoNavia® biopsy system, 14 G)was developed. It incorporates a pneumatic needle insertion mechanism that isintended to provide better control of needle progression and enable stepwiseinsertion without noticeable deformation or displacement of surrounding tissue asvisualized under ultrasound. A new method of tissue acquisition was designed toachieve a sampling yield higher than standard methodologies. Needle dynamics was assessed on a specifically designed test bed and sampling performance wascompared to a Magnum® biopsy instrument (Bard, Covington, GA, USA) inrepresentative tissue models. The histological quality of samples obtainedex-vivo was evaluated. A pneumatic pulse was measured to accelerate the needle toa maximum velocity of 21.2 ± 2.5 m/s on a stroke length of 2.5 mm, achievingsignificantly higher acceleration, maximum velocity and power than current biopsydevices. Mean weight of samples obtained by the NeoNavia device were 3.5, 4.6,and 4.3 times higher when sampling was performed in turkey breast, calf thymusand swine pancreas, respectively, as compared to samples obtained with the Magnuminstrument. Ex-vivo analysis indicates that the method of tissue acquisition has no apparent negative impact on the histopathologic quality of obtained samples.Copyright © 2018 Associazione Italiana di Fisica Medica. Published by ElsevierLtd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.12.014 PMID: 29519406 