37. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 7;13(3):e0193624. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193624.eCollection 2018.Biochemical properties of thyroid peroxidase (TPO) expressed in human breast and mammary-derived cell lines.Godlewska M(1), Krasuska W(1), Czarnocka B(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Center of PostgraduateMedical Education, Warsaw, Poland.Thyroid peroxidase (TPO) is an enzyme and autoantigen expressed in thyroid andbreast tissues. Thyroid TPO undergoes a complex maturation process however,nothing is known about post-translational modifications of breast-expressed TPO. In this study, we have investigated the biochemical properties of TPO expressedin normal and cancerous human breast tissues, and the maturation process andantigenicity of TPO present in a panel of human breast tissue-derived cell lines.We found that the molecular weight of breast TPO was slightly lower than that of thyroid TPO due to decreased glycosylation and as suggest results of Western blotalso shorter amino acid chain. Breast TPO exhibit enzymatic activity andisoelectric point comparable to that of thyroid TPO. The biochemical propertiesof TPO expressed in mammary cell lines and normal thyrocytes are similarregarding glycan content, molecular weight and isoelectric point. However, noperoxidase activity and dimer formation was detected in any of these cell linessince the majority of TPO protein was localized in the cytoplasmic compartment,and the TPO expression at the cell surface was too low to detect its enzymaticactivity. Lactoperoxidase, a protein highly homologous to TPO expressed also inbreast tissues, does not influence the obtained data. TPO expressed in the celllines was recognized by a broad panel of TPO-specific antibodies. Although somedifferences in biochemical properties between thyroid and breast TPO wereobserved, they do not seem to be critical for the overall three-dimensionalstructure. This conclusion is supported by the fact that TPO expressed in breast tissues and cell lines reacts well with conformation-sensitive antibodies. Takinginto account a close resemblance between both proteins, especially highantigenicity, future studies should investigate the potential immunotherapiesdirected against breast-expressed TPO and its specific epitopes.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193624 PMCID: PMC5841765PMID: 29513734  [Indexed for MEDLINE]