168. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 8;13(3):e0193918. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193918.eCollection 2018.Sulforaphane potentiates anticancer effects of doxorubicin and attenuates itscardiotoxicity in a breast cancer model.Bose C(1), Awasthi S(2), Sharma R(3), Beneš H(4), Hauer-Jensen M(5), Boerma M(5),Singh SP(2)(3)(6).Author information: (1)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Department of Geriatrics, Little Rock, Arkansas, United States of America.(2)Texas Tech Health Sciences Center, Division of Hematology & Oncology,Department of Internal Medicine, Lubbock, Texas, United States of America.(3)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Department of Pharmacology andToxicology, Little Rock, Arkansas, United States of America.(4)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Department of Neurobiology andDevelopmental Sciences, Little Rock, Arkansas, United States of America.(5)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Division of Radiation Health,Little Rock, Arkansas, United States of America.(6)Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System, Little Rock, Arkansas, UnitedStates of America.Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women of the Western world.Doxorubicin (DOX) continues to be used extensively to treat early-stage ornode-positive breast cancer, human epidermal growth factor receptor-2(HER2)-positive breast cancer, and metastatic disease. We have previouslydemonstrated in a mouse model that sulforaphane (SFN), an isothiocyanate isolatedfrom cruciferous vegetables, protects the heart from DOX-induced toxicity anddamage. However, the effects of SFN on the chemotherapeutic efficacy of DOX inbreast cancer are not known. Present studies were designed to investigate whetherSFN alters the effects of DOX on breast cancer regression while also acting as a cardioprotective agent. Studies on rat neonatal cardiomyocytes and multiple ratand human breast cancer cell lines revealed that SFN protects cardiac cells butnot cancer cells from DOX toxicity. Results of studies in a rat orthotopic breastcancer model indicated that SFN enhanced the efficacy of DOX in regression oftumor growth, and that the DOX dosage required to treat the tumor could bereduced when SFN was administered concomitantly. Additionally, SFN enhancedmitochondrial respiration in the hearts of DOX-treated rats and reduced cardiacoxidative stress caused by DOX, as evidenced by the inhibition of lipidperoxidation, the activation of NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and associatedantioxidant enzymes. These studies indicate that SFN not only actssynergistically with DOX in cancer regression, but also protects the heart fromDOX toxicity through Nrf2 activation and protection of mitochondrial integrityand functions.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193918 PMCID: PMC5843244PMID: 29518137  [Indexed for MEDLINE]