68. Lab Chip. 2018 Mar 27;18(7):1057-1065. doi: 10.1039/c8lc00084k.A robust tissue laser platform for analysis of formalin-fixed paraffin-embeddedbiopsies.Chen YC(1), Chen Q, Wu X, Tan X, Wang J, Fan X.Author information: (1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan, 1101 Beal Ave,Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. xsfan@umich.edu.Laser emission-based detection and imaging technology has attracted significantinterest in biomedical research due to its high sensitivity, narrow linewidth,and superior spectral and spatial resolution. Recent advances have furtherrevealed the potential to use laser emission to investigate chromatin dynamics,as well as to diagnose cancer tissues based on nuclear biomarkers. To move thelaser emission based detection technology a step further towards practical use,in this work, we developed a highly robust tissue laser platform bymicrofabricating an SU8 spacer with a fixed height on the top mirror of theFabry-Pérot (FP) cavity, which allows generation of reproducible and stablelasing results regardless of tissue thickness. Then we applied this platform toachieve lasing emission from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) lungtissues, which account for an overwhelming fraction of tissues collected forresearch and clinical use worldwide. We further showed that the cancer and normalFFPE lung tissues can be distinguished by their respective lasing thresholds. Twodifferent tissue thicknesses (10 μm and 5 μm) commonly used in pathological labs were explored. Finally, we tested three additional types of tissues (colon,stomach, and breast) that were prepared independently by lab technicians in apathology lab in China and shipped to the US in order to validate the generalapplicability and practicality of the laser emission-based technology as well as the corresponding sample preparation protocol and the tissue laser platform. Our work will not only vastly broaden the applications of laser emission-baseddetection/imaging technology but also help translate it from the laboratory to anautomated system for clinical practice that may eventually benefit biomedicineand biological research.DOI: 10.1039/c8lc00084k PMID: 29511754 