53. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2018 Mar;155:199-208. doi:10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.12.011. Epub 2017 Dec 12.Breast cancer data analysis for survivability studies and prediction.Shukla N(1), Hagenbuchner M(2), Win KT(2), Yang J(3).Author information: (1)School of Systems, Management and Leadership, Faculty of Engineering andInformation Technology, University of Technology Sydney, NSW 2007, Australia.Electronic address: nagesh.shukla@uts.edu.au.(2)School of Computing and Information Technology, University of Wollongong,Wollongong, NSW 2500, Australia.(3)SMART Infrastructure Facility, Faculty of Engineering and InformationSciences, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, NSW 2500, Australia.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the most common cancer affecting females worldwide. Breast cancer survivability prediction is challenging and a complex researchtask. Existing approaches engage statistical methods or supervised machinelearning to assess/predict the survival prospects of patients.OBJECTIVE: The main objectives of this paper is to develop a robust dataanalytical model which can assist in (i) a better understanding of breast cancer survivability in presence of missing data, (ii) providing better insights intofactors associated with patient survivability, and (iii) establishing cohorts of patients that share similar properties.METHODS: Unsupervised data mining methods viz. the self-organising map (SOM) and density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN) is used tocreate patient cohort clusters. These clusters, with associated patterns, wereused to train multilayer perceptron (MLP) model for improved patientsurvivability analysis. A large dataset available from SEER program is used inthis study to identify patterns associated with the survivability of breastcancer patients. Information gain was computed for the purpose of variableselection. All of these methods are data-driven and require little (if any) inputfrom users or experts.RESULTS: SOM consolidated patients into cohorts of patients with similarproperties. From this, DBSCAN identified and extracted nine cohorts (clusters).It is found that patients in each of the nine clusters have differentsurvivability time. The separation of patients into clusters improved the overallsurvival prediction accuracy based on MLP and revealed intricate conditions that affect the accuracy of a prediction.CONCLUSIONS: A new, entirely data driven approach based on unsupervised learning methods improves understanding and helps identify patterns associated with thesurvivability of patient. The results of the analysis can be used to segment the historical patient data into clusters or subsets, which share common variablevalues and survivability. The survivability prediction accuracy of a MLP isimproved by using identified patient cohorts as opposed to using raw historicaldata. Analysis of variable values in each cohort provide better insights intosurvivability of a particular subgroup of breast cancer patients.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2017.12.011 PMID: 29512500 