50. Soft Matter. 2018 Mar 28;14(12):2400-2410. doi: 10.1039/c7sm02248d. Epub 2018 Mar7.Immobilization of gold nanoparticles on folate-conjugated dendritic mesoporoussilica-coated reduced graphene oxide nanosheets: a new nanoplatform for curcumin pH-controlled and targeted delivery.Malekmohammadi S(1), Hadadzadeh H(1), Farrokhpour H(1), Amirghofran Z(2).Author information: (1)Department of Chemistry, Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan84156-83111, Iran. hadad@cc.iut.ac.ir.(2)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of MedicalSciences, Shiraz, Iran.In the present study, a new sandwich-like nanocomposite as a multifunctionalsmart nanocarrier for curcumin (Cur) targeted delivery and cell imaging wasprepared by immobilization of gold nanoparticles on folic acid-modified dendriticmesoporous silica-coated reduced graphene oxide nanosheets (AuNPs@GFMS). Thephysical and chemical properties of the nanocomposite were investigated by atomicforce microscopy (AFM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray diffraction(XRD), UV-Vis, field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM), Fouriertransformation infrared (FT-IR), and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) surface areaanalysis. The nanocarrier exhibits a number of interesting properties, including good biocompatibility, biodegradability, and suitable surface area, which resultsin high drug loading capacity. In addition, this new drug delivery system showed sustained-release and pH-responsive properties. The in vitro cytotoxicity test ofthe free curcumin, free nanocarrier (AuNPs@GFMS), curcumin-loadedfolate-conjugated nanocarriers (Cur-AuNPs@GFMS), and curcumin-loaded nanocarrierswithout folate-conjugation (Cur-AuNPs@GAMS) against two human cancer cell lines, including MCF-7 (human breast carcinoma cell lines) and A549 (human lungcarcinoma cell lines) demonstrated that the therapeutic efficacy ofCur-AuNPs@GFMS is significantly greater than those of other compounds because thecancerous cells can uptake the folate-conjugated drug nanocarrier via areceptor-mediated mechanism. Fluorescence microscopic images and differentstaining techniques were also used to visualize the cellular uptake, anticanceractivity, specific targeting ability, and photothermal potency of Cur-AuNPs@GFMS toward the MCF-7 cancer cells. The obtained results proved that the proposedsystem, Cur-AuNPs@GFMS, can be used as a potent anticancer agent in targetedcancer therapies for breast cancer.DOI: 10.1039/c7sm02248d PMID: 29512668 