158. Opt Express. 2017 Feb 6;25(3):1732-1745. doi: 10.1364/OE.25.001732.Microfabricated devices for single objective single plane illumination microscopy(SoSPIM).Zagato E, Brans T, Verstuyft S, van Thourhout D, Missinne J, van Steenberge G,Demeester J, De Smedt S, Remaut K, Neyts K, Braeckmans K.Light sheet microscopy is a relatively new form of fluorescence microscopy thathas been receiving a lot of attention recently. The strong points of thetechnique, such as high signal to noise ratio and its reduced photodamage offluorescently labelled samples, come from its unique feature to illuminate only athin plane in the sample that coincides with the focal plane of the detectionlens. Typically this requires two closely positioned perpendicular objectivelenses, one for detection and one for illumination. Apart from the fact that thisspecial configuration of objective lenses is incompatible with standardmicroscope bodies, it is particularly problematic for high-resolution lenseswhich typically have a short working distance. To address these issues wedeveloped sample holders with an integrated micromirror to perform single lenslight sheet microscopy, also known as single objective single plane illumination microscopy (SoSPIM). The first design is based on a wet-etched silicon substrate,the second on a microfabricated polished polymer plug. We achieved an on-chiplight sheet thickness of 2.3 μm (FWHM) at 638 nm with the polymer micromirror andof 1.7 μm (FWHM) at 638 nm with the silicon micromirror, comparable to reportedlight sheet thicknesses obtained on dedicated light sheet microscopes. A markedcontrast improvement was obtained with both sample holders as compared to classicepi-fluorescence microscopy. In order to evaluate whether this technology couldbe made available on a larger scale, in a next step we evaluated the opticalquality of inexpensive replicas from both types of master molds. We found thatreplicas from the polished polymer based mold have an optical quality close tothat of the master component, while replicas from the silicon based mold were of slightly lower but still acceptable quality. The suitability of the replicatedpolymer based sample holder for single-lens light sheet microscopy was finallydemonstrated by imaging breast cancer spheroids.PMID: 29519027 