8. Front Oncol. 2018 Feb 21;8:27. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00027. eCollection 2018.The Expression and Prognostic Impact of Immune Cytolytic Activity-Related Markersin Human Malignancies: A Comprehensive Meta-analysis.Roufas C(1)(2), Chasiotis D(1), Makris A(1), Efstathiades C(2), Dimopoulos C(2), Zaravinos A(1).Author information: (1)Department of Life Sciences, Biomedical Sciences Program, School of Sciences, European University Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.(2)The Center for Risk and Decision Sciences (CERIDES), Department of ComputerSciences, School of Sciences, European University Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.Background: Recently, immune-checkpoint blockade has shown striking clinicalresults in different cancer patients. However, a significant inter-individual andinter-tumor variability exists among different cancers. The expression of thetoxins granzyme A (GZMA) and perforin 1 (PRF1), secreted by effector cytotoxic T cells and natural killer (NK) cells, were recently used as a denominator of theintratumoral immune cytolytic activity (CYT). These levels are significantlyelevated upon CD8+ T-cell activation as well as during a productive clinicalresponse against immune-checkpoint blockade therapies. Still, it is notcompletely understood how different tumors induce and adapt to immune responses.Methods: Here, we calculated the CYT across different cancer types and focused ondifferences between primary and metastatic tumors. Using data from 10,355,primary tumor resection samples and 2,787 normal samples that we extracted fromThe Cancer Genome Atlas and Genotype-Tissue Expression project databases, wescreened the variation of CYT across 32 different cancer types and 28 differentnormal tissue types. We correlated the cytolytic levels in each cancer type with the corresponding patient group's overall survival, the expression of severalimmune-checkpoint molecules, as well as with the load of tumor-infiltratinglymphocytes (TILs), and tumor-associated neutrophils (TANs) in these tumors.Results: We found diverse levels of CYT across different cancer types, withhighest levels in kidney, lung, and cervical cancers, and lowest levels inglioma, adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), and uveal melanoma. GZMA protein waseither lowly expressed or absent in at least half of these tumors; whereas PRF1protein was not detected in almost any of the different tumor types, analyzingtissue microarrays from 20 different tumor types. CYT was significantly higher inmetastatic skin melanoma and correlated significantly to the TIL load. InTCGA-ACC, skin melanoma, and bladder cancer, CYT was associated with an improved patient outcome and high levels of both GZMA and PRF1 synergistically affectedpatient survival in these cancers. In bladder, breast, colon, esophageal, kidney,ovarian, pancreatic, testicular, and thyroid cancers, high CYT was accompanied byupregulation of at least one immune-checkpoint molecule, indicating that similar to melanoma and prostate cancer, immune responses in cytolytic-high tumors elicitimmune suppression in the tumor microenvironment.Conclusion: Overall, our data highlight the existence of diverse levels of CYTacross different cancer types and suggest that along with the existence ofcomplicated associations among various tumor-infiltrated immune cells, it iscapable to promote or inhibit the establishment of a permissive tumormicroenvironment, depending on the cancer type. High levels of immunosuppression seem to exist in several tumor types.DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00027 PMCID: PMC5826382PMID: 29515971 