175. J Contin Educ Health Prof. 2018 Winter;38(1):3-10. doi:10.1097/CEH.0000000000000190.Systematic Review of Standardized Patient Use in Continuing Medical Education.Wilbur K(1), Elmubark A, Shabana S.Author information: (1)Dr. Wilbur: Associate Professor, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences,University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Ms.Elmubark: Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar. Dr. Shabana: Hamad MedicalCorporation, Doha, Qatar.INTRODUCTION: The standardized patient (SP) has assumed a fundamental role inundergraduate medical education since first conceived over 50 years ago. Whilewidely used in student training and assessment of communication and clinicalexamination across health disciplines, little is known how SPs enhance knowledge or skill development among professionals. We conducted a systematic review todetermine the effectiveness of SPs in continuing medical education (CME)programs.METHODS: Authors independently searched for studies published between 1966 and2016, describing CME initiatives using SP encounters as practice for participantscompared with those which did not. Studies assessing virtual patients ormannequins or employing SPs for assessment only were excluded. Learning outcomes were characterized according to the Kirkpatrick framework for determining theeffectiveness of training programs.RESULTS: Four hundred eighty-eight studies were identified, but only five wereeligible for analysis. Most were conducted with small numbers of primary carephysicians in North America. CME topics related to opioid prescribing, breastcancer examination and cancer screening, smoking cessation, and chronic asthmamanagement. In the two studies testing knowledge, no difference was found betweenintervention and control groups (Kirkpatrick level 2). Improved behaviors weredemonstrated in breast cancer patient examination and interview and decreasedopioid-prescribing rates among selected participants in two studies (Kirkpatrick level 3). Only one study investigated patient outcomes and found reduced rates ofuncontrolled asthma in practices of physicians who were assigned to SP practiceencounters in the CME training (Kirkpatrick level 4).DISCUSSION: There is little rigorous outcome study of CME programs incorporating SPs. Given the necessary human and fiscal resources associated with their use,our review highlights the need to reconsider the SP role in CME unless furtherpurposeful evaluation to determine participant behavior change and relatedpatient outcomes is pursued.DOI: 10.1097/CEH.0000000000000190 PMID: 29517612 