73. Free Radic Biol Med. 2018 May 20;120:1-12. doi:10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2018.03.003. Epub 2018 Mar 7.Downregulation of glycine decarboxylase enhanced cofilin-mediated migration inhepatocellular carcinoma cells.Zhuang H(1), Li Q(2), Zhang X(3), Ma X(3), Wang Z(3), Liu Y(3), Yi X(4), ChenR(3), Han F(5), Zhang N(6), Li Y(7).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Laboratory of CancerCell Biology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital,Department of Pathogen Biology & Department of Genetics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China; Department ofHepatic Biliary Pancreatic Surgery, Cancer Hospital Affiliated to ZhengzhouUniversity, Zhengzhou, Henan Province 450000, China; Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, Tianjin300070, China.(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Tianjin Medical University CancerInstitute and Hospital, Tianjin 300070, China.(3)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Laboratory of CancerCell Biology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital,Department of Pathogen Biology & Department of Genetics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China.(4)School of Biomedical Engineering, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China.(5)Department of Hepatic Biliary Pancreatic Surgery, Cancer Hospital Affiliatedto Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan Province 450000, China.(6)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Laboratory of CancerCell Biology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital,Department of Pathogen Biology & Department of Genetics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China. Electronic address: zhangning@tmu.edu.cn.(7)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Laboratory of CancerCell Biology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital,Department of Pathogen Biology & Department of Genetics, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin 300070, China. Electronic address: liym@tmu.edu.cn.Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer. Glycine decarboxylase (GLDC), anoxidoreductase, plays an important role in amino acid metabolism. While GLDCpromotes tumor initiation and proliferation in non-small cell lung cancer andglioma and it was reported as a putative tumor suppressor gene in gastric cancer,the role of GLDC in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is unknown. In the currentstudy, microarray-based analysis suggested that GLDC expression was low in highlymalignant HCC cell lines, and clinicopathological analysis revealed a decrease inGLDC in HCC tumor samples. While the knockdown of GLDC enhanced cancer cellmigration and invasion, GLDC overexpression inhibited them. Mechanistic studiesrevealed that GLDC knockdown increased the levels of reactive oxygen species(ROS) and decreased the ratio of glutathione/oxidized glutathione (GSH/GSSG),which in turn dampened the ubiquitination of cofilin, a key regulator of actinpolymerization. Consequently, the protein level of cofilin was elevated, whichaccounted for the increase in cell migration. The overexpression of GLDC reversedthe phenotype. Treatment with N-acetyl-L-cysteine decreased the protein level of cofilin while treatment with H2O2 increased it, further confirming the role ofROS in regulating cofilin degradation. In a tumor xenographic transplant nudemouse model, the knockdown of GLDC promoted intrahepatic metastasis of HCC while GLDC overexpression inhibited it. Our data indicate that GLDC downregulationdecreases ROS-mediated ubiquitination of cofilin to enhance HCC progression andintrahepatic metastasis.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2018.03.003 PMID: 29524606 