Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.149. Int J Nanomedicine. 2018 Feb 27;13:1119-1137. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S147464.eCollection 2018.Theranostic pH-sensitive nanoparticles for highly efficient targeted delivery of doxorubicin for breast tumor treatment.Pan C(#)(1)(2)(3), Liu Y(#)(2)(3), Zhou M(1), Wang W(4), Shi M(1), XingM(2)(3)(5), Liao W(1).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,Guangzhou, China.(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering.(3)Department of Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba,Winnipeg, MB, Canada.(4)The Imaging Center, 999 Brain Hospital, Guangzhou, China.(5)Children's Hospital Research Institute of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.(#)Contributed equallyA multifunctional theranostic nanoplatform integrated with environmentalresponses has been developed rapidly over the past few years as a novel treatmentstrategy for several solid tumors. We synthesized pH-sensitivepoly(β-thiopropionate) nanoparticles with a supermagnetic core and folic acid(FA) conjugation (FA-doxorubicin-iron oxide nanoparticles [FA-DOX@ IONPs]) todeliver an antineoplastic drug, DOX, for the treatment of folate receptor(FR)-overexpressed breast cancer. In addition to an imaging function, thenanoparticles can release their payloads in response to an environment of pH 5,such as the acidic environment found in tumors. After chemical (1H nuclearmagnetic resonance) and physical (morphology and super-magnetic)characterization, FA-DOX@IONPs were shown to demonstrate pH-dependent drugrelease profiles. Western blotting analysis revealed the expression of FRs inthree breast cancer cell lines, MCF-7, BT549, and MD-MBA-231. The cell countingkit-8 assay and transmission electron microscopy showed that FA-DOX@IONPs had thestrongest cytotoxicity against breast cancer cells, compared with free DOX andnon-FR targeted nanoparticles (DOX@IONPs), and caused cellular apoptosis. TheFA-DOX@IONP-mediated cellular uptake and intracellular internalization wereclarified by fluorescence microscopy. FA-DOX@IONPs plus magnetic field treatment suppressed in vivo tumor growth in mice to a greater extent than either treatmentalone; furthermore, the nanoparticles exerted no toxicity against healthy organs.Magnetic resonance imaging was successfully applied to monitor the nanoparticleaccumulation. Our results suggest that theranostic pH-sensitive nanoparticleswith dual targeting could enhance the available therapies for cancer.DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S147464 PMCID: PMC5834183PMID: 29520140  [Indexed for MEDLINE]