75. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2018 Apr 6;498(3):566-572. doi:10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.03.020. Epub 2018 Mar 13.Downregulation of TXNIP leads to high proliferative activity andestrogen-dependent cell growth in breast cancer.Park JW(1), Lee SH(1), Woo GH(2), Kwon HJ(3), Kim DY(4).Author information: (1)Department of Veterinary Pathology, Department of Veterinary Pathology,College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic ofKorea.(2)Laboratory of Histopathology, Department of Clinical Laboratory Science,Semyung University, Jecheon 27136, Republic of Korea.(3)Department of Veterinary Pathology, College of Veterinary Medicine, ChungnamNational University, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.(4)Department of Veterinary Pathology, Department of Veterinary Pathology,College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul National University, Seoul, Republic ofKorea. Electronic address: daeyong@snu.ac.kr.TXNIP is a potent tumor suppressor with reduced expression in various types ofhuman cancer. The prognostic and predictive power of TXNIP has been recognized inhuman breast cancer. The aim of this study is to investigate the clinicalrelevance and functional roles of TXNIP downregulation in breast cancer. Weexamined TXNIP expression at the protein level in tissue microarray (TMA)-basedhuman breast cancers and its correlation with clinical parameters and molecularmarkers on immunohistochemistry (IHC). Compared with normal tissues, TXNIPexpression was significantly decreased in human breast cancer tissues and animal mammary tumors, along with tumor progression. TXNIP was restored immediatelyafter histone deacetylase inhibitor treatment in breast cancer cells, implyingtranscriptional regulation of TXNIP by histone modification. Decreased TXNIPprotein levels were more common in tumors showing high proliferative activity,such as high Ki-67 labeling indexes and low p27 expression. TXNIP knockdown ledto increased in vitro and in vivo breast cancer cell growth accompanied by p27reduction and GLUT1 induction. Interestingly, estrogen receptor (ER)-positivebreast cancer samples showed higher TXNIP expression compared to ER-negativesamples. TXNIP expression decreased when ER signaling was activated by estradiol,while its expression increased under ER blockage by anti-estrogen fulvestrant. Inaddition, TXNIP knockdown in breast cancer cells caused significant reduction in the cell-growth inhibitory effect of anti-estrogen fulvestrant. In conclusion,our data demonstrated that TXNIP functions to suppress high proliferativeactivity and estrogen-dependent cell growth in breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.03.020 PMID: 29524408  [Indexed for MEDLINE]