Conflict of interest statement: None.12. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2018 Apr 1;48(4):376-381. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyy020.Sterilized talc pleurodesis for malignant pleural effusions: a Phase II study forinvestigational new drug application in Japan.Saka H(1), Oki M(1), Kitagawa C(1), Kogure Y(1), Kojima Y(1), Saito AM(2), IshidaA(3), Miyazawa T(3), Takeda K(4), Nakagawa K(5), Sasada S(6), Negoro S(7).Author information: (1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, National Hospital Organization NagoyaMedical Center, Aichi.(2)Clinical Research Center, National Hospital Organization, Nagoya MedicalCenter, Aichi.(3)Department of Respiratory/Infectious Diseases, St. Marianna University School of Medicine Hospital, Kanagawa.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Osaka City General Hospital, Osaka.(5)Department of Medical Oncology, Kindai University Hospital, Osaka.(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Tokyo Saiseikai Central Hospital, Tokyo.(7)Department of Medical Oncology, Hyogo Cancer Center, Hyogo, Japan.Background: Malignant pleural effusion is a commonly seen complication ofmalignancies such as lung and breast cancers. In Western countries, talc isfrequently used as a standard therapeutic agent (pleurodesis agent) with the aim of alleviating symptoms including dyspnea and chest pain. Talc is not recognized as a pleurodesis agent in Japan. The aim of this study was to verify the efficacyand safety of sterilized talc (NPC-05) for the introduction of talc in Japan.Methods: The study was a single-arm, open-label, investigator-initiated trialconducted jointly at six institutions. The subjects were 30 patients withmalignant pleural effusions. A solution of 4 g NPC-05 suspended in 50 mlphysiological saline was instilled into the pleural space to perform pleurodesis.Results: The efficacy of NPC-05 for pleural adhesion 30 days after pleurodesiswas 83.3% (25/30 cases). Amelioration of dyspnea and pain (chest pain) was seen. Commonly seen adverse effects were increased C-reactive protein (CRP) and fever. Nearly all adverse events were phenomena previously reported as adverse effectsof talc. No acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) or other serious sideeffects occurred.Conclusion: The efficacy and safety of NPC-05 for malignant pleural effusion inJapanese patients was verified, and the clinical outcomes with talc wereconfirmed to be the same as previously reported in other countries. There isthought to be a high level of need for this agent in the treatment of malignantpleural effusion in Japan.DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyy020 PMID: 29528450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]