62. Med Dosim. 2018 Mar 7. pii: S0958-3947(18)30012-8. doi:10.1016/j.meddos.2018.01.001. [Epub ahead of print]Correlating the depth of compensation to the 3-D shape of the breast to achievehomogeneous dose distribution using the electronic tissue compensation treatment technique.Alghufaili AH(1), Shanmugarajah L(1), Kumaraswamy LK(2).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Medicine, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY14263.(2)Department of Radiation Medicine, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY14263; Department of Medical Physics, State University of New York at Buffalo,Buffalo, NY 14260. Electronic address: lalith.kumaraswamy@roswellpark.org.Our study aimed to correlate the overall 3-dimensional (3-D) shape of the breast to the compensation depth to produce a homogeneous dose distribution using theelectronic tissue compensation (ECOMP) treatment technique. The study involvedcreating a number of semioval water phantoms with the diameter of the larger axisrepresenting the breast separation and the shorter axis representing the distancefrom the chest wall to the apex of the breast. Multiple plans with 2 tangentialfields were created for each phantom using different transmission penetrationdepths (TPDs) to determine the optimum TPD value based on the evaluation of dose uniformity and maximum hot spot. Optimum TPD values from the semioval waterphantom plans were plotted on a graph as a function of separation and radius and were used as guidelines to choose the optimum TPD for the breast patient's cases.A total of 10 patients who had been treated with radiation therapy using ECOMPtangential fields were randomly selected. The separation and the radius of thebreast were measured for 3 regions (superior, middle, and inferior) toretrospectively determine the optimum TPD from the graph for each region. TheseTPD values were then used to plan the breast cases. For all the patients studied,the optimized TPD technique produced a lower average homogeneity index (HI) valueof 0.658 than the standard ECOMP technique of 0.856. These results showed thatoptimized TPD technique produced a more homogeneous dose distribution than thestandard ECOMP technique. By measuring the breast size based on breast separationand the chest wall-to-apex distance at different locations along thesuperior-inferior axis of the breast, the optimum TPD can be determined at eachlocation to provide a homogeneous dose distribution. A module can be createdwithin the planning system to automatically assign the optimum TPD for bothtangential fields so uniform fluence maps can be achieved throughout the wholebreast volume. This method can serve as a guideline in ECOMP during the treatmentplanning to obtain a homogeneous dose distribution.Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.meddos.2018.01.001 PMID: 29525491 