125. Disabil Rehabil. 2018 Mar 9:1-9. doi: 10.1080/09638288.2018.1449259. [Epub ahead of print]The difference is more than floating: factors affecting breast cancer survivors' decisions to join and maintain participation in dragon boat teams and supportgroups.McDonough MH(1), Patterson MC(1), Weisenbach BB(2), Ullrich-French S(3), SabistonCM(4).Author information: (1)a Faculty of Kinesiology , University of Calgary , Calgary , Canada.(2)b Department of Health & Kinesiology , Purdue University , West Lafayette , IN, USA.(3)c Department of Educational Leadership, Sport Studies, andEducational/Counseling Psychology , Washington State University , Pullman , WA , USA.(4)d Faculty of Kinesiology & Physical Education , University of Toronto ,Toronto , Canada.PURPOSE: Peer support can be helpful in rehabilitation from breast cancer, butparticipation in peer support groups is low. Groups that provide supportopportunities in physical activity contexts are an attractive alternative forsome survivors. This study examined survivors' reasons for joining andmaintaining participation on a dragon boat team, along with perceptions ofbarriers and attractions to traditional peer support groups.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventeen breast cancer survivors were interviewed on fiveoccasions over their first two seasons of a newly formed dragon boating team toexplore their perceptions of peer support groups and dragon boating. Data wereinductively analyzed using thematic analysis.RESULTS: Categories surrounding physical, psychological, social and communityfeatures were identified with several themes emerging within each. Advantages of dragon boating included opportunities to get a combination of physical,psychosocial and community benefits; health improvement and behavior change; and obtaining social support without the focus being on cancer. Peer support groupswere identified as having advantages for forming relationships and avoidingbarriers associated with physical activity.CONCLUSIONS: While neither type of program meets all needs, practicalconsiderations are identified for incorporating advantages of both programs toimprove participation. Implications for rehabilitation Further understanding ofperceptions, and attractions and challenges to taking part in group programs willinform development of accessible programs that target multiple rehabilitationneeds. Physical activity can provide a positive, alternative focus that takes theemphasis off of cancer, which is more accessible to some survivors. Physicalactivity also provides opportunities to build relationships around a common,positive goal, which can be a foundation for providing support for coping withcancer.DOI: 10.1080/09638288.2018.1449259 PMID: 29521150 