77. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2017 Dec;25 Suppl 2:S59-S63. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a5055.Inequalities in Cancer Deaths by Age, Gender and Education.Gróf M(1), Vagašová T(1), Oltman M(2), Skladaný Ľ(3), Maličká L(1).Author information: (1)Faculty of Economics, Technical University of Košice, Košice, Slovak Republic.(2)Center for Gastroenterology and Hepatology Thalion, Bratislava, SlovakRepublic.(3)Department Internal Medicine II, Faculty of Medicine, Slovak MedicalUniversity in Bratislava, F. D. Roosevelt University Hospital, Banská Bystrica,Slovak Republic.AIM: The economy of each state provides a significant amount of money into thehealth care system with the aim of knowing the health status of its population inthe context of socioeconomic characteristics for effective resource allocation.In recent years, there is a growing number of cancer deaths in Slovakia.Therefore, the structure of cancer deaths according to its primary determinants, such as age, sex and education with the aim of effective implementation ofprevention programs in Slovakia was examined.METHODS: Main source of data on deaths from 1996 to 2014 was provided by NationalHealth Information Centre in Slovakia. However, data were available only from2011. Standardized mortality rate per 100,000 inhabitants was estimated by themethod of direct standardization using European standard population. The Rproject for statistical computing was used for calculation of statisticallysignificant differences among various groups of mortality.RESULTS: The results show that people with primary education die from cancerlater than people with higher education. However, major differences related toboth sex and age are present in people with university education. A differentvariety of cancers occur in childhood (neoplasm of brain), adolescents (neoplasm of bone), young adults (neoplasm of brain), or adults (lung cancer and breastcancer). Malignant neoplasm of brain was more prevalent at higher educationlevels, Malignant neoplasm of bladder and Malignant melanoma of skin were moreprevalent at the university level of education.CONCLUSIONS: The results can be useful for economists to define the healthpriorities in each country, make the financial decisions in economics, and thuscontribute to better health, economic growth, as well as effective spending ofhealth expenditures.Copyright© by the National Institute of Public Health, Prague 2017.DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a5055 PMID: 29524371  [Indexed for MEDLINE]