137. Osteoporos Int. 2018 May;29(5):1049-1055. doi: 10.1007/s00198-018-4414-z. Epub2018 Mar 8.Estrogen therapy for osteoporosis in the modern era.Levin VA(1), Jiang X(1)(2), Kagan R(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of ObGyn, The Reading Hospital of Tower Health, Reading, PA, USA.(2)Department of ObGyn, Sidney Kimmel Medical College of Thomas JeffersonUniversity, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(3)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, UCSF, SanFrancisco, CA, USA. kaganr@Sutterhealth.org.(4)Sutter East Bay Medical Foundation, 2500 Milvia Street, Berkeley, CA, 94704,USA. kaganr@Sutterhealth.org.Menopause predisposes women to osteoporosis due to declining estrogen levels.This results in a decrease in bone mineral density (BMD) and an increase infractures. Osteoporotic fractures lead to substantial morbidity and mortality,and are considered one of the largest public health priorities by the WorldHealth Organization (WHO). It is therefore essential for menopausal women toreceive appropriate guidance for the prevention and management of osteoporosis.The Women's Health Initiative (WHI) randomized controlled trial first provedhormonal therapy (HT) reduces the incidence of all osteoporosis-related fracturesin postmenopausal women. However, the study concluded that the adverse effectsoutweighed the potential benefits on bone, leading to a significant decrease inHT use for menopausal symptoms. Additionally, HT was not used as first-linetherapy for osteoporosis and fractures. Subsequent studies have challenged these initial conclusions and have shown significant efficacy of HT in various doses,durations, regimens, and routes of administration. These studies support that HT improves BMD and reduces fracture risk in women with and without osteoporosis.Furthermore, the studies suggest that low-dose and transdermal HT are less likelyassociated with the adverse effects of breast cancer, endometrial hyperplasia,coronary artery disease (CAD), and venous thromboembolism (VTE) previouslyobserved in standard-dose oral HT regimens. Given the need for estrogen inmenopausal women and evidence supporting the cost effectiveness, safety, andefficacy of HT, we propose that HT should be considered for the primaryprevention and treatment of osteoporosis in appropriate candidates. HT should be individualized and the once "lowest dose for shortest period of time" conceptshould no longer be used. This review will focus on the prior and current studiesfor various HT formulations used for the prevention and treatment ofosteoporosis, exploring the safety profile of low-dose and transdermal HT thathave been shown to be safer than oral standard-dose HT.DOI: 10.1007/s00198-018-4414-z PMID: 29520604 