41. Phytomedicine. 2018 May 15;44:187-203. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.03.001. Epub2018 Mar 1.A systematic review of pharmacokinetic studies on herbal drug Fuzi: Implications for Fuzi as personalized medicine.Wu JJ(1), Guo ZZ(1), Zhu YF(1), Huang ZJ(1), Gong X(1), Li YH(1), Son WJ(1), LiXY(1), Lou YM(1), Zhu LJ(1), Lu LL(2), Liu ZQ(3), Liu L(4).Author information: (1)International Institute for Translational Chinese Medicine, GuangzhouUniversity of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China.(2)International Institute for Translational Chinese Medicine, GuangzhouUniversity of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China; State KeyLaboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Scienceand Technology, Macau (SAR), China.(3)International Institute for Translational Chinese Medicine, GuangzhouUniversity of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China; State KeyLaboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau University of Scienceand Technology, Macau (SAR), China. Electronic address: liuzq@gzucm.edu.cn.(4)State Key Laboratory of Quality Research in Chinese Medicine, Macau Universityof Science and Technology, Macau (SAR), China. Electronic address:lliu@msut.edu.mo.BACKGROUND: Fuzi, which is the processed lateral roots of Aconitum carmichaeliDebx. (Ranunculaceae), is a traditional herbal medicine that is well known forits excellent pharmacological effects and acute toxicity. Aconitum alkaloids are responsible for its pharmacological activity and toxicity. Although a largenumber of studies on Fuzi have been reported, no comprehensive review on itspharmacokinetics has yet been published.PURPOSE: This paper seeks to present a comprehensive review regarding thephytochemistry, pharmacokinetic features and toxicity of Fuzi. The regulation of drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) and efflux transporters (ETs) by Fuzi is alsoconcluded. Additionally, the use of Fuzi as a personalized medicine based on the bioavailability barrier (BB), which mainly comprises DMEs and ETs, is discussed.METHODS: All available information on Fuzi was collected by searching for keywords in PubMed, ScienceDirect, CNKI, Google Scholar, Baidu Scholar, and Web ofScience.RESULTS: Aconitum alkaloids, which mainly include diester-diterpene alkaloids(DDAs), monoester-diterpene alkaloids (MDAs) and unesterified-diterpene alkaloids(UDAs), could be detected after Fuzi ingestion in vivo. The Aconitum alkaloidsare rapidly absorbed in the intestine and extensively distributed in the body.DMEs, especially CYP3A4/5, are responsible for various types of metabolicreactions of the Aconitum alkaloids. ETs, including P-glycoprotein (P-gp),multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2), and breast cancer resistanceprotein (BCRP), are involved in the efflux of the DDAs and MDAs. The kidney isthe most important organ involved in the excretion of the Aconitum alkaloids.DDAs are the main toxic compounds present in Fuzi, and their acute toxicity ismainly due to their effects on the voltage-dependent sodium channels.Furthermore, Fuzi can substantially regulate DMEs and ETs.CONCLUSIONS: The toxicity of DDAs is acute. However, further investigations arenecessary to determine the exact toxicological mechanisms. The significant impactof Fuzi on DMEs and ETs suggests that the co-administration of Fuzi with drugsthat are substrates of DMEs and/or ETs may cause herb-drug interactions (HDIs).The BB network controlled exposure to the Aconitum alkaloids in vivo.Polymorphisms of DMEs and ETs in different individuals contribute to thedifferences in the efficacy and toxicity of Fuzi ingestion. In the future, theuse of Fuzi as personalized medicine based on the BB network is necessary andpractical to achieve ideal therapeutic efficacy with minimal toxicity.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.03.001 PMID: 29526584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]