30. Front Public Health. 2018 Feb 23;6:35. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00035. eCollection2018.Developing a Return to Work Intervention for Breast Cancer Survivors with theIntervention Mapping Protocol: Challenges and Opportunities of the NeedsAssessment.Fassier JB(1)(2), Lamort-Bouché M(1)(3), Broc G(1), Guittard L(4)(5), PéronJ(6)(7), Rouat S(8), Carretier J(9), Fervers B(9)(10), Letrilliart L(3)(4),Sarnin P(8).Author information: (1)UMRESTTE UMR T_9405, Unité mixte de recherche Epidémiologique et deSurveillance Transport Travail Environnement, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1,Université de Lyon, Lyon, France.(2)Service de médecine et santé au travail, Hospices civils de Lyon, Lyon,France.(3)Collège universitaire de médecine générale, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Université de Lyon, Lyon, France.(4)HESPER, Health Services and Performance Research, Université Claude BernardLyon 1, Université de Lyon, Lyon, France.(5)Pôle IMER, Hospices civils de Lyon, Lyon, France.(6)Laboratoire de Biométrie et Biologie Evolutive LBBE - UMR 5558, Université de Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France.(7)Service d'oncologie médicale. Institut de Cancérologie des Hospices Civils de Lyon (IC-HCL), Hospices civils de Lyon, Pierre-Bénite, France.(8)GRePS - EA 4163 (Groupe de Recherche en Psychologie Sociale), UniversitéLumière Lyon 2, Université de Lyon, Lyon, France.(9)Centre Léon Bérard, Département Cancer et Environnement, Lyon, France.(10)Faculté Lyon Est, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Université de Lyon, Lyon,France.Return to work (RTW) is an important step for breast cancer survivors (BCSs).However, they face many barriers that affect particularly women with lowsocioeconomic status (SES). Health care, workplace, and insurance actors lackknowledge and collaborate poorly. No intervention to date has proven effective toreduce social disparities in employment after breast cancer. The interventionmapping (IM) protocol is being used in France to develop, implement, and evaluatean intervention to facilitate and sustain RTW after breast cancer [FAciliter etSoutenir le retour au TRAvail après un Cancer du Sein (FASTRACS) project]. Theresearch question of this study was to elicit the needs for RTW after breastcancer from various stakeholders' point of view. The aim of this study was todescribe the process and the preliminary results of the needs assessment of theFASTRACS project. Different methods were followed to (a) establish and work with a planning group and (b) conduct a needs assessment to create a logic model ofthe problem. A planning group was organized to gather the stakeholders with theresearch team. A review of the literature and indicators was conducted toidentify the magnitude of the problem and the factors influencing RTW. Aqualitative inquiry was conducted with 12 focus groups and 48 individualsemi-structured interviews to explore the needs and experience of thestakeholders. The results of these tasks were the proposition of a charter ofpartnership to structure the participative process, a review of the scientificevidence and indicators, and the description by the stakeholders of their needsand experience. Many stakeholders disagreed with the concept of "earlyintervention." They advocated for a better support of BCSs during their RTW,emphasized as a process. Anticipation, intersectoral collaboration, and workplaceaccommodation were mentioned to fit the needs of the BCS and their environment. Alogic model of the problem was elaborated from these data. The ability of themodel to consider specific characteristics of women with low SES is discussed,with a view to developing the FASTRACS intervention through the next steps of theIM protocol.DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00035 PMCID: PMC5829033PMID: 29527521 