46. Semin Oncol. 2017 Aug;44(4):288-300. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2017.10.012. Epub 2018 Jan 19.Comparative aspects of canine and human inflammatory breast cancer.Raposo TP(1), Arias-Pulido H(2), Chaher N(3), Fiering SN(2), Argyle DJ(4), Prada J(5), Pires I(5), Queiroga FL(6).Author information: (1)Division of Cancer and Stem Cells, Faculty of Medicine, University ofNottingham, United Kingdom.(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology and Norris Cotton Cancer Center,Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, Centre Pierre et Marie Curie, 1, Avenue Battendier,Place May 1st, Algiers, Algeria.(4)The Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies and Roslin Institute, EasterBush Campus, Midlothian, University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom.(5)Departament of Veterinary Sciences, University of Trás-os-Montes and AltoDouro, Vila Real, Portugal; Animal and Veterinary research Centre (CECAV),University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal.(6)Departament of Veterinary Sciences, University of Trás-os-Montes and AltoDouro, Vila Real, Portugal; Center for the Study of Animal Sciences, CECA-ICETA, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; Center for Research and Technology ofAgro-Environment and Biological Sciences, University of Trás-os-Montes and AltoDouro, Vila Real, Portugal. Electronic address: fqueirog@utad.pt.Inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) in humans is the most aggressive form of mammarygland cancer and shares clinical, pathologic, and molecular patterns of diseasewith canine inflammatory mammary carcinoma (CIMC). Despite the use of multimodal therapeutic approaches, including targeted therapies, the prognosis for IBC/CIMC remains poor. The aim of this review is to critically analyze IBC and CIMC interms of biology and clinical features. While rodent cancer models have formedthe basis of our understanding of cancer biology, the translation of thisknowledge into improved outcomes has been limited. However, it is possible that acomparative "one health" approach to research, using a natural canine model ofthe disease, may help advance our knowledge on the biology of the disease. Thiswill translate into better clinical outcomes for both species. We propose thatCIMC has the potential to be a useful model for developing and testing noveltherapies for IBC. Further, this strategy could significantly improve andaccelerate the design and establishment of new clinical trials to identify novel and improved therapies for this devastating disease in a more predictable way.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2017.10.012 PMID: 29526258 