3. Radiographics. 2018 Mar-Apr;38(2):330-356. doi: 10.1148/rg.2018170095.Idiopathic Granulomatous Mastitis: Manifestations at Multimodality Imaging andPitfalls.Pluguez-Turull CW(1), Nanyes JE(1), Quintero CJ(1), Alizai H(1), Mais DD(1), KistKA(1), Dornbluth NC(1).Author information: (1)From the Departments of Radiology (C.W.P.T., J.E.N., H.A., K.A.K., N.C.D.) andPathology (D.D.M.), University of Texas Health at San Antonio, 7703 Floyd CurlDr, San Antonio, TX 78229; and Department of Radiology, Bryn Mawr Hospital, Bryn Mawr, Pa (C.J.Q.).Idiopathic granulomatous mastitis (IGM) is a rare benign inflammatory breastentity characterized by lobulocentric granulomas. IGM has a persistent orrecurrent disease course and affects parous premenopausal women with a history oflactation. It has also been associated with hyperprolactinemia. The most commonclinical sign is a palpable tender mass. However, the nonspecific manifestations and varied demographic features of this condition, as well as the othersimilar-appearing and superimposed breast entities, pose substantial diagnosticchallenges. Entities with similar manifestations include inflammatory breastcancer (IBC), infective mastitis, foreign body injection granulomas, mammary ductectasia, diabetic fibrous mastopathy, and systemic granulomatous processes. Thestrategy for imaging IGM depends on patient age, clinical manifestations, andrisk factors. Targeted ultrasonography, mammography, and less commonly, magnetic resonance imaging have proven to be useful for imaging evaluation. Core-needlebiopsy, with or without fine-needle aspiration for cytopathologic examination,and culture analysis are usually required to exclude IBC and other benigninflammatory breast processes. Patients with IGM have an excellent prognosis whenthey are appropriately treated with oral steroids or second-lineimmunosuppressive and prolactin-lowering medications. However, surgical excision may be an option for patients in whom medication therapy is unsuccessful. Imagingsurveillance can be offered to patients with incidentally encountered IGM or mildsymptoms. Clinical suspicion for this rare disease and the breast imager's promptdiagnosis can lead to an improved patient outcome. The purpose of this article isto review the imaging manifestations of IGM in a multimodality case-based format and to describe relevant clinical and imaging-based differential diagnoses. Theassociated pitfalls, epidemiologic and histopathologic factors, clinicalmanifestations, natural course, and management of IGM also are discussed. ©RSNA, 2018.DOI: 10.1148/rg.2018170095 PMID: 29528819 