59. Sex Med. 2018 Jun;6(2):162-170. doi: 10.1016/j.esxm.2018.01.002. Epub 2018 Mar 7.Dynamic Penile Corpora Cavernosa Reconstruction Using Bilateral InnervatedGracilis Muscles: A Preclinical Investigation.Yin Z(1), Liu L(2), Xue B(3), Fan J(3), Chen W(4), Liu Z(3).Author information: (1)Plastic Surgery Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking UnionMedical College, Beijing, China; Department of Breast Oncoplastic Surgery,Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital; National ClinicalResearch Center for Cancer; Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and Therapy,Tianjin; Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin, China.(2)Plastic Surgery Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking UnionMedical College, Beijing, China. Electronic address: liuliqiang@psh.pumc.edu.cn.(3)Plastic Surgery Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking UnionMedical College, Beijing, China.(4)Department of Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of XiamenUniversity, Xiamen, China.INTRODUCTION: Prosthesis-assisted penile reconstruction has been performedextensively to restore a cosmetically acceptable phallus. However, a large numberof patients will undergo revision surgery for various prosthesis-relatedcomplications.AIM: To develop a 1-stage prosthesis-free dynamic cavernosa reconstruction methodusing bilateral innervated gracilis muscles and to investigate the feasibilityand reliability of the surgical design.METHODS: 10 fresh cadavers were dissected to assess the availability of bilateralgracilis muscles for functional cavernosa rebuilding. 11 mongrel female dogs wereinvolved in the penile reconstruction surgery. The neophallus consisted ofbilateral gracilis muscles as the neo-cavernosa, a right gracilis skin flap asthe neourethra, and a lower abdominal flap with an anterior rectus sheath as the skin envelope and neo-tunica albuginea. The function and structure of theneo-phalli were assessed 7 months postoperatively.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The neurovascular pedicle length of the gracilis musclesand the volume of the gracilis venter musculi were measured in the cadavericinvestigation. The average dimensions of the canine neo-phalli at rest and duringelectrostimulated erection were obtained and the muscular fatigue-resistant curvewas drawn. Histologic evaluations also were performed.RESULTS: The neurovascular pedicle length and volume of the gracilis muscles weresufficient to yield a nearly normal appearance of the neo-cavernosa in thecadaveric and animal studies. The muscular fatigue-resistant curve demonstratedadequate length, stiffness, and duration of erection of the neo-phalli toaccomplish normal coitus. Histologic evaluations showed an intact neourethra and nearly normal muscle structure in the inner layer of the canine neo-cavernosa,except for significantly increased amount of collagen fibers and type I/IIIcollagen ratio in the outer layer of the neo-cavernosa. The percentage of type II(fatigue-prone) muscle fibers did not change significantly.CONCLUSION: Our preclinical investigation proves that corpora cavernosareconstruction using bilateral innervated gracilis muscles is technicallyfeasible and functionally efficacious. Yin Z, Liu L, Xue B, et al. Dynamic PenileCorpora Cavernosa Reconstruction Using Bilateral Innervated Gracilis Muscles: APreclinical Investigation. Sex Med 2018;6:162-170.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.esxm.2018.01.002 PMCID: PMC5960033PMID: 29525539 