141. Menopause. 2018 Mar 12. doi: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001095. [Epub ahead of print]Tissue selective estrogen complex (TSEC): a review.Pickar JH(1), Boucher M(2), Morgenstern D(3).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Columbia University Medical Center,New York, NY.(2)Pfizer Canada Inc, Kirkland, QC, Canada.(3)Pfizer Inc, Collegeville, PA.OBJECTIVE: This review describes historical development of selective estrogenreceptor modulators (SERMs) and their combination with estrogens, termed a tissueselective estrogen complex (TSEC), and considers the potential for future TSECdevelopment.METHODS: This narrative review is based on literature identified on PubMed andthe TSEC research and development experience of the authors.RESULTS: SERMs have estrogenic and antiestrogenic effects in various tissues;however, no single agent has achieved an optimal balance of agonist andantagonist effects for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. Clinically, a numberof SERMs protect against osteoporosis and breast cancer but can exacerbatevasomotor symptoms. Estrogens alleviate menopausal hot flushes and genitourinary symptoms as well as reduce bone loss, but the addition of a progestogen tomenopausal hormone therapy to protect against endometrial cancer increasesvaginal bleeding risk, breast tenderness, and potentially breast cancer. Thesearch for an effective menopausal therapy with better tolerability led to theinvestigation of TSECs. Clinical development of a TSEC consisting of conjugatedestrogens/bazedoxifene increased understanding of the importance of a carefulconsideration of the combination's components and their respective doses tobalance safety and efficacy. Bazedoxifene is an estrogen receptor agonist in bonebut an antagonist/degrader in the endometrium, which has contributed to itssuccess as a TSEC component. Other oral TSEC combinations studied thus far havenot demonstrated similar endometrial safety.CONCLUSIONS: Choice of SERM, selection of doses, and clinical trial dataevaluating safety and efficacy are key to ensuring safety and adequatetherapeutic effect of TSECs for addressing menopausal symptoms.This is an openaccess article distributed under the terms of the Creative CommonsAttribution-Non Commercial-No Derivatives License 4.0 (CCBY-NC-ND), where it ispermissible to download and share the work provided it is properly cited. Thework cannot be changed in any way or used commercially without permission fromthe journal. http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0.DOI: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001095 PMID: 29533367 