79. Immunol Res. 2018 Apr;66(2):245-254. doi: 10.1007/s12026-018-8987-6.The human breast cancer-associated protein, the prolactin-inducible protein(PIP), regulates intracellular signaling events and cytokine production bymacrophages.Ihedioha O(1), Blanchard AA(1)(2), Balhara J(3)(4), Okwor I(3), Jia P(3), Uzonna J(5), Myal Y(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(2)Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, University of Manitoba,Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(3)Department of Immunology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(4)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University,Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.(5)Department of Immunology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. jude.uzonna@umanitoba.ca.The prolactin-inducible protein (PIP) is considered a valuable biomarker that is associated with both benign and malignant pathological conditions of the mammary gland. The function of PIP in breast tumorigenesis remains unknown; however,evidence from our laboratory and others suggest that it regulates host immunity. Studies with PIP-deficient (PIP-/-) mice demonstrated significantly lower numbersof CD4+ T cells in their secondary lymphoid organs, impaired Th1 response, andimpaired nitric oxide (NO) production. To further delineate the immunoregulatory role of PIP, we compared the expression of IFN-γR and TLR4, pro-inflammatorycytokine production, and intracellular signaling events by IFN-γ andlipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages from wild-type (WT) and PIP-/-mice. We showed that although the expressions of IFN-γR and TLR4 were comparable,productions of pro-inflammatory cytokines were decreased in PIP-/- macrophages.This was associated with decreased phosphorylation of mitogen-activated proteinkinase (MAPK) and signal transducer of activation of transcription (STAT)proteins in macrophages from PIP-/- mice. Interestingly, the expression ofsuppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 and 3 proteins, known to suppressIFN-γ and LPS signaling, was higher in PIP-/- macrophages compared to those from WT mice. Collectively, our studies show that deficiency of PIP significantlyaffects intracellular signaling events leading to decreased pro-inflammatorycytokine production, and further confirms a role for PIP as an importantimmunoregulatory protein. This direct link between PIP and cell-mediatedimmunity, a key component of the immune system that is critical for cancercontrol, may have significant therapeutic implications.DOI: 10.1007/s12026-018-8987-6 PMID: 29536339 