183. BMJ Open. 2018 Mar 12;8(3):e019576. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019576.Understanding the role of health information in patients' experiences: secondary analysis of qualitative narrative interviews with people diagnosed with cancer inGermany.Blödt S(1), Kaiser M(1), Adam Y(1), Adami S(2), Schultze M(1), Müller-NordhornJ(1), Holmberg C(1).Author information: (1)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, corporate member of Freie UniversitätBerlin, Humboldt Unversität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health, Institute of Public Health, Berlin, Germany.(2)Albert-Ludwigs University Freiburg; Institute of psychology, department ofrehabilitation psychology and psychotherapy, Germany.OBJECTIVE: To analyse the role and meaning of health information in individuals' experiences with either breast, colorectal or prostate cancer in order to better understand unmet information needs of people with a cancer diagnosis.DESIGN: This is a secondary analysis of data from a qualitative interview studyincluding narrative interviews and maximum variation sampling. A thematicanalysis was conducted, followed by an in-depth analysis based on the principles of grounded theory.SETTING: Interviewees were sought across Germany through self-help organisations,primary care clinics, rehabilitation facilities, physicians and other healthcare professionals to develop cancer modules for the website krankheitserfahrungen.de (illness experiences.de).PARTICIPANTS: Women with a diagnosis of breast cancer, individuals with adiagnosis of colorectal cancer and men with a diagnosis of prostate cancer.RESULTS: The meaning and role of information in the illness experiences wereclearly associated with gaining control in a seemingly uncontrollable situationin which others -people, the disease- take over. Four categories characterise theways in which information helped interviewees to regain a sense of controlfollowing a diagnosis of cancer: 'becoming confident in one's treatmentdecision', 'taking responsibility for one's situation', 'understanding theconsequences of the disease and treatment for one's life', and 'dealing withfear'. There was, however, always a fine line between information seeking andbecoming overwhelmed by information.CONCLUSIONS: Information needs to be understood as a management tool for handlingthe disease and its (potential) consequences. Patients' unmet needs forinformation might not be easily solved by a simple increase in the amount ofinformation because emotional support and respect for patient autonomy might alsoplay a role. The evaluation of one's own information behaviour and theinformation received is closely linked to how the illness unfolds. This makes it challenging to document unmet information needs and satisfaction with informationindependent of an individual's illness trajectory over time.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019576 PMCID: PMC5857676PMID: 29530909 