144. Am J Dermatopathol. 2018 Mar 6. doi: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000001131. [Epub ahead ofprint]A Case of a Malignant Cutaneous Mixed Tumor (Chondroid Syringoma) of the Scapula Treated With Staged Margin-Controlled Excision.Lal K(1), Morrell TJ(2), Cunningham M(1), OʼDonnell P(2), Levin NA(1), CornejoKM(2).Author information: (1)Departments of Dermatology, and.(2)Pathology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA.Cutaneous mixed tumor (chondroid syringoma) is the cutaneous counterpart ofpleomorphic adenoma of salivary glands, comprised of both epithelial andmesenchymal components. Malignant transformation is exceptionally rare, with onlya few cases reported. We report a case of a malignant cutaneous mixed tumor in an86-year-old white man who presented with a pink indurated plaque on his leftscapula. He had a history of nonmelanoma skin cancers, a stage IB malignantmelanoma of a lower extremity and Gleason 4 + 3 prostate cancer treated withbrachytherapy, external beam irradiation, and bicalutamide. A shave biopsy wasperformed and histologic examination revealed infiltrative single-unit atypicalcells and small ducts in a superficially transected sclerotic dermis suggestiveof a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. No epidermal connection wasidentified. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that the tumor was positive for CK7, CAM5.2, and mCEA and negative for CK20, epithelial membrane antigen, P63,prostate-specific antigen, prostatic specific acid phosphatase, andalpha-methylacyl-coenzyme A racemase. A metastasis of the breast or upperdigestive tract was favored, although a primary eccrine carcinoma was alsoconsidered. Imaging was performed and no other masses were identified. A slowMohs excision was performed with negative margins. Microscopic examinationrevealed a biphasic neoplasm comprised of infiltrative epithelial strands andtubules consistent with an eccrine carcinoma in a hyalinized and chondromyxoidstroma within the dermis, arising from a well-circumscribed chondroid syringomalocated in the deep dermis and subcutis. Areas of clear cell change,intracytoplasmic vacuolization, and mucin pools were noted. Multiple foci ofperineural invasion were identified. Additional immunohistochemical studiesrevealed that the tumor was positive for S100 and negative for CK5/6, calponin,glial fibrillary acidic protein, GATA3, GCDFP-15, and mammoglobin. Based on themorphologic features and immunoprofile, this was diagnosed as a malignantcutaneous mixed tumor. This case highlights the importance of obtaining adequate tissue for histologic evaluation, as they can be confused with other skinneoplasms because of their clinically ambiguous presentations. Although rare, an accurate diagnosis is important given that long-term follow-up is recommendedbecause of the risk of local recurrence and both lymph node and distantmetastases.DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000001131 PMID: 29533281 