142. Menopause. 2018 Jul;25(7):828-836. doi: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001079.Vaginal estrogen and mammogram results: case series and review of literature ontreatment of genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM) in breast cancersurvivors.Zuo SW(1), Wu H(2), Shen W(2).Author information: (1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Bronx, NY.(2)Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics,Baltimore, MD.OBJECTIVE: To examine mammographic density before and after at least 1 year ofvaginal estrogen use in a small cohort of healthy postmenopausal women and women with a personal history of breast cancer.METHODS: We extracted data via chart review of patients from a singlepractitioner's menopause specialty clinic in Baltimore, MD. Mammographic changewas primarily determined via the Bi-RADS scoring system, including the Bi-RADSdensity score. In addition, we conduct a narrative review of the currentliterature on the usage of local estrogen therapy, and systemic and localalternatives in the treatment of genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM) inbreast cancer survivors.RESULTS: Twenty healthy postmenopausal women and three breast cancer survivorsfit our inclusion criteria. Amongst these two groups, we did not find an increasein mammographic density after at least 1 year and up to 18 years of local vaginalestrogen. Ospemifene use in one patient did not appear to be associated with any change in Bi-RADS score. Our narrative review found little data on the effects ofvaginal estrogen therapy or newer alternative systemic therapies such asospemifene on mammographic density.CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose vaginal estrogen use for 1 or more years in a small cohort of women with GSM did not appear to be associated with any changes in breastdensity or Bi-RADS breast cancer risk scores in the majority of studyparticipants, including three breast cancer survivors. Larger long-termcontrolled clinical trials should be conducted to examine the effects of low-dosevaginal estrogen on mammographic density in women with and without a personalhistory of breast cancer. Furthermore, relative efficacy and risk of vaginalestrogen compared with other forms of treatment for GSM should also be studied inlong-term trials.DOI: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001079 PMID: 29533365 