Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MN has received honorariafrom Daiichi Sankyo and Taiho Pharmaceutical. MasM has received research grantsfrom Chugai, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Takeda, Daiichi Sankyo, Astellas, Otsuka, Baxter,Teijin Pharma and Shionogi. TS has received research grants from Baxter,Astellas, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Teijin Pharma and Takeda. EB has received researchgrants from Takeda, Chugai, Eli Lilly, Merck Serono, Shionogi and Taiho. He hasalso received honorarium from Eli Lilly. KT has received research grants fromKyowa Hakko Kirin, Chugai, Takeda, Kissei, Otsuka, Daiichi Sankyo and Torii. Hehas also received honoraria from Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Chugai and Sanofi. Hisinstitution has received funding from Baxter. AN has received research grant fromDaiichi Sankyo. HY has received honoraria from Medicon, Taiho, Chugai, YakultHonsha, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Takeda and Kyowa Hakko Kirin. MY has been on theadvisory board of Astellas and received research grants from Astellas, Chugai,Daiichi Sankyo, Fuji Yakuhin, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, Mitsubishi Tanabe, MSD, NipponBoehringer Ingelheim, Baxter, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, Fuso Pharmaceutical Industries and Terumo Corporation. ManM has received research grant from Chugai, Yakult Honsha, Ono Pharmaceutical, Ayumi Pharmaceutical, Showa Yakuhin Kako,Shionogi, Taiho, Terumo and Nippon Zoki Pharmaceutical Corporations.167. Cell Death Discov. 2018 Feb 20;4:29. doi: 10.1038/s41420-018-0035-8. eCollection 2018 Dec.BIX-01294 sensitizes renal cancer Caki cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis throughdownregulation of survivin expression and upregulation of DR5 expression.Woo SM(1), Seo SU(1), Min KJ(1), Kwon TK(1).Author information: (1)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Keimyung University, 1095Dalgubeoldaero, Dalseo-Gu, Daegu 42601 South Korea.BIX-01294 (BIX), a G9a histone methyltransferase inhibitor, has been reported forits anti-proliferative and anticancer activities against various cancer celllines. In this study, we investigated whether BIX could sensitize TRAIL-mediated apoptosis in various cancer cells. Combined treatment with BIX and TRAIL markedlyinduced apoptosis in human renal carcinoma (Caki, ACHN, and A498), breastcarcinoma (MCF-7), and lung carcinoma (A549) cells. In contrast, BIX and TRAILco-treatment did not induce apoptosis in normal cells, specifically mouse kidney cell (TCMK-1) and human skin fibroblast (HSF). BIX downregulated proteinexpression levels of XIAP and survivin at the post-translational level.Overexpression of survivin markedly blocked combined BIX and TRAILtreatment-induced apoptosis, but XIAP had no effect. Furthermore, BIX inducedupregulation of DR5 expression at the transcriptional levels, and knockdown ofDR5 expression using small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) markedly attenuated BIX and TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Interestingly, siRNA-mediated G9a histonemethyltransferase knockdown also enhanced TRAIL-induced apoptosis in Caki cells. However, knockdown of G9a did not change expression levels of XIAP, survivin, andDR5. Therefore, BIX-mediated TRAIL sensitization was independent of histonemethyltransferase G9a activity. Taken together, these results suggest that BIXfacilitates TRAIL-mediated apoptosis via downregulation of survivin andupregulation of DR5 expression in renal carcinoma Caki cells. ▶ BIX facilitatesTRAIL-mediated apoptosis in human renal carcinoma Caki cells. ▶ Downregulation ofsurvivin contributes to BIX plus TRAIL-induced apoptosis. ▶ Upregulation of DR5is involved in BIX plus TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. ▶ BIX-mediated TRAILsensitization is independent of ROS production.DOI: 10.1038/s41420-018-0035-8 PMCID: PMC5841352PMID: 29531826 