127. Bioinformatics. 2018 Mar 9. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bty133. [Epub ahead ofprint]A novel computational approach for drug repurposing using systems biology.Peyvandipour A(1), Saberian N(1), Shafi A(1), Donato M(1), Draghici S(1)(2).Author information: (1)Computer Science, Wayne State University, Detroit, 48202, USA.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI48202, USA.Motivation: Identification of novel therapeutic effects for existing U.S. Foodand Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drugs, drug repurposing, is an approachaimed to dramatically shorten the drug discovery process, which is costly, slowand risky. Several computational approaches use transcriptional data to findpotential repurposing candidates. The main hypothesis of such approaches is that if gene expression signature of a particular drug is opposite to the geneexpression signature of a disease, that drug may have a potential therapeuticeffect on the disease. However, this may not be optimal since it fails toconsider the different roles of genes and their dependencies at the system level.Results: We propose a systems biology approach to discover novel therapeuticroles for established drugs that addresses some of the issues in the currentapproaches. To do so, we use publicly available drug and disease data to build a drug-disease network (DDN) by considering all interactions between drug targetsand disease-related genes in the context of all known signaling pathways. Thisnetwork is integrated with gene-expression measurements to identify drugs withnew desired therapeutic effects based on a system-level analysis method. Wecompare the proposed approach with the drug repurposing approach proposed bySirota et al. on four human diseases: idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF),non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), prostate cancer, and breast cancer. Weevaluate the proposed approach based on its ability to re-discover drugs that arealready FDA-approved for a given disease.Availability: The R package DrugDiseaseNet is under review for publication inBioconductor and is available at https://github.com/azampvd/DrugDiseaseNet.Contact: sorin@wayne.edu.Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformaticsonline.DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bty133 PMID: 29534151 