155. Cancer Sci. 2018 May;109(5):1493-1502. doi: 10.1111/cas.13571. Epub 2018 Apr 15.Therapeutic strategies for afatinib-resistant lung cancer harboring HER2alterations.Torigoe H(1)(2), Shien K(1), Takeda T(3), Yoshioka T(2), Namba K(1), Sato H(1),Suzawa K(1), Yamamoto H(1), Soh J(1), Sakaguchi M(4), Tomida S(5), Tsukuda K(1), Miyoshi S(1), Toyooka S(1)(2).Author information: (1)Departments of Thoracic, Breast and Endocrinological Surgery, OkayamaUniversity Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences,Okayama, Japan.(2)Clinical Genomic Medicine, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.(3)Clinical Pharmacy, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistryand Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.(4)Cell Biology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry andPharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.(5)Biobank, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry andPharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) plays an important role in thepathogenesis of various cancers. HER2 alterations have been suggested to be atherapeutic target in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), just as in breast andgastric cancers. We previously reported that the pan-HER inhibitor afatinib couldbe a useful therapeutic agent as HER2-targeted therapy for patients with NSCLCharboring HER2 alterations. However, acquired resistance to afatinib was observedin the clinical setting, similar to the case for other HER inhibitors. Thus,elucidation of the mechanisms underlying the development of acquired drugresistance and exploring means to overcome acquired drug resistance are importantissues in the treatment of NSCLC. In this study, we experimentally establishedafatinib-resistant cell lines from NSCLC cell lines harboring HER2 alterations,and investigated the mechanisms underlying the acquisition of drug resistance.The established cell lines showed several unique afatinib-resistance mechanisms, including MET amplification, loss of HER2 amplification and gene expression,epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and acquisition of cancer stem cell(CSC)-like features. The afatinib-resistant cell lines showing MET amplification were sensitive to the combination of afatinib plus crizotinib (a MET inhibitor), both in vitro and in vivo. The resistant cell lines which showed EMT or hadacquired CSC-like features remained sensitive to docetaxel, like the parentalcells. These findings may provide clues to countering the resistance to afatinib in NSCLC patients with HER2 alterations.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.DOI: 10.1111/cas.13571 PMCID: PMC5980184PMID: 29532558  [Indexed for MEDLINE]