154. Cancer Sci. 2018 May;109(5):1627-1637. doi: 10.1111/cas.13570. Epub 2018 Apr 15.Activation of AMPK by simvastatin inhibited breast tumor angiogenesis viaimpeding HIF-1α-induced pro-angiogenic factor.Wang JC(1)(2), Li XX(3), Sun X(4), Li GY(5), Sun JL(1), Ye YP(1), Cong LL(1), Li WM(1), Lu SY(1), Feng J(1), Liu PJ(2)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Vascular Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an JiaotongUniversity, Xi'an, China.(2)Center for Translational Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an JiaotongUniversity, Xi'an, China.(3)Department of Breast Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an JiaotongUniversity, Xi'an, China.(4)Department of Thoracic Surgery and Oncology, First Affiliated Hospital ofXi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.(5)Department of Science and Technology, First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'anJiaotong University, Xi'an, China.(6)Key Laboratory for Tumor Precision Medicine of Shaanxi Province, FirstAffiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.Substantial data from preclinical studies have revealed the biphasic effects ofstatins on cardiovascular angiogenesis. Although some have reported theanti-angiogenic potential of statins in malignant tumors, the underlyingmechanism remains poorly understood. The aim of this study is to elucidate themechanism by which simvastatin, a member of the statin family, inhibits tumorangiogenesis. Simvastatin significantly suppressed tumor cell-conditionedmedium-induced angiogenic promotion in vitro, and resulted in dose-dependentanti-angiogenesis in vivo. Further genetic silencing of hypoxia-induciblefactor-1α (HIF-1α) reduced vascular endothelial growth factor and fibroblastgrowth factor-2 expressions in 4T1 cells and correspondingly ameliorated HUVECproliferation facilitated by tumor cell-conditioned medium. Additionally,simvastatin induced angiogenic inhibition through a mechanism ofpost-transcriptional downregulation of HIF-1α by increasing the phosphorylationlevel of AMP kinase. These results were further validated by the fact that5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide reduced HIF-1α protein levels andameliorated the angiogenic ability of endothelial cells in vitro and in vivo.Critically, inhibition of AMPK phosphorylation by compound C almost completelyabrogated simvastatin-induced anti-angiogenesis, which was accompanied by thereduction of protein levels of HIF-1α and its downstream pro-angiogenic factors. These findings reveal the mechanism by which simvastatin induces tumoranti-angiogenesis, and therefore identifies the target that explains thebeneficial effects of statins on malignant tumors.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.DOI: 10.1111/cas.13570 PMCID: PMC5980150PMID: 29532562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]