105. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2018 May 1;101(1):63-73. doi:10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.01.094. Epub 2018 Feb 3.Abscopal Effects With Hypofractionated Schedules Extending Into the EffectorPhase of the Tumor-Specific T-Cell Response.Zhang X(1), Niedermann G(2).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg,Freiburg, Germany; German Cancer Consortium, partner site Freiburg, and GermanCancer Research Center, Heidelberg, Germany; Department of Radiation Oncology,First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiao Tong University, Xi'an, Shaan Xi,People's Republic of China.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg,Freiburg, Germany; German Cancer Consortium, partner site Freiburg, and GermanCancer Research Center, Heidelberg, Germany. Electronic address:gabriele.niedermann@uniklinik-freiburg.de.PURPOSE: Hypofractionated radiation therapy (hRT) combined with immune checkpointblockade can induce T-cell-mediated local and abscopal antitumor effects. We had previously observed peak levels of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) between days 5 and 8 after hRT. Because TILs are regarded as radiosensitive, hRTschedules extending into this period might be less immunogenic, prompting usto compare clinically relevant, short and extended schedules with equivalentbiologically effective doses combined with anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD1)antibody treatment.METHODS AND MATERIALS: In mice bearing 2 B16-CD133 melanoma tumors, the primarytumor was irradiated with 3 × 9.18 Gy in 3 or 5 days or with 5 × 6.43 Gy in10 days; an anti-PD1 antibody was given weekly. The mice were monitored for tumorgrowth and survival. T-cell responses were determined on days 8 and 15 oftreatment. The role of regional lymph nodes was studied by administering FTY720, which blocks lymph node egress of activated T cells. Tumor growth measurementsafter combination treatment using short or extended hRT and control treatmentwere also performed in the wild-type B16 melanoma and 4T1 breast carcinomamodels.RESULTS: In the B16-CD133 model, growth inhibition of irradiated primaryand nonirradiated secondary tumors and overall survival were similar with all3 hRT/anti-PD1 combinations, superior to hRT and anti-PD1 monotherapy, and wasstrongly dependent on CD8+ T cells. TIL infiltration and local and systemictumor-specific CD8+ T-cell responses were also similar, regardless of whethershort or extended hRT was used. Administration of FTY720 accelerated growth ofboth primary and secondary tumors, strongly reduced their TIL infiltration, andincreased tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in the lymph nodes draining the irradiated tumor. In the 4T1 model, local and abscopal tumor control was also similar,regardless of whether short or extended hRT was used, although the synergybetween hRT and anti-PD1 was weaker. No synergies were found in the B16 wild-typemodel lacking an exogenous antigen.CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that combination therapy with hRT schedulesextending into the period during which treatment-induced T cells infiltrate theirradiated tumor can provoke local and systemic antitumor effects similar tothose with therapy using shorter schedules, if the regional lymph nodes supplysufficient tumor-specific T cells. This has implications for planning clinicalRT/immune checkpoint blockade trials.Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.01.094 PMID: 29534901 