Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: TU has received honorariafrom Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Eisai Co, Ltd, Novartis Pharma K.K. MT hasreceived remuneration and funding from Pfizer Inc and Novartis Pharma K.K. SS hasreceived honoraria from Astra Zeneca K.K., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, EisaiCo, Ltd, Novartis Pharma K.K. and Pfizer Inc NM has received honoraria fromChugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Astra Zeneca K.K., Eisai Co, Ltd, Kyowa HakkoKirin Co, Ltd and Pfizer Inc. and funding from Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd and Eisai Co, Ltd. SO has received remuneration from Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd,Astra Zeneca K.K., Eisai Co, Ltd, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co, Ltd, Novartis PharmaK.K., Sanofi K.K., Taiho Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd and Pfizer Inc. HI has receivedhonoraria form Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Eisai Co, Ltd, Astra Zeneca K.K.,Daichi Sankyo Co, Ltd. and funding from Novartis Pharma K.K. Pfizer Inc, AstraZeneca K.K., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co, Ltd, GSK Co,Ltd, Daiichi Sankyo Co, Ltd, Lilly Co, Ltd, MSD Inc. TY has received honorariafrom Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, BoehringerIngelheim Co, Ltd and Taiho Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd and funding from TakedaPharmaceutical Co, Ltd.166. ESMO Open. 2018 Feb 23;3(2):e000301. doi: 10.1136/esmoopen-2017-000301.eCollection 2018.Chemotherapy in cancer patients undergoing haemodialysis: a nationwide study inJapan.Funakoshi T(1), Horimatsu T(1), Nakamura M(2), Shiroshita K(3), Suyama K(4),Mukoyama M(5), Mizukami T(6), Sakurada T(7), Baba E(8), Tsuruya K(9), NozakiA(10), Yahata K(11), Ozaki Y(12), Ubara Y(13), Yasui H(14), Yoshimoto A(15),Fukuma S(16), Kondo N(17), Matsubara T(17), Matsubara K(18), Fukuhara S(19),Yanagita M(17), Muto M(1).Author information: (1)Department of Therapeutic Oncology, Graduate School of Medicine, KyotoUniversity, Kyoto, Japan.(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Sapporo City General Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.(3)Division of Nephrology, Sapporo City General Hospital, Sapporo, Japan.(4)Kumamoto University Hospital Cancer Center, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto,Japan.(5)Department of Nephrology, Kumamoto University Graduate School of MedicalSciences, Kumamoto, Japan.(6)Department of Clinical Oncology, St Marianna University School of Medicine,Kawasaki, Japan.(7)Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Department of Internal Medicine, StMarianna University School of Medicine, Kawasaki, Japan.(8)Department of Comprehensive Clinical Oncology, Faculty of Medical Sciences,Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.(9)Department of Integrated Therapy for Chronic Kidney Disease, Graduate Schoolof Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.(10)Department of Clinical Oncology, National Hospital Organization Kyoto MedicalCenter, Kyoto, Japan.(11)Department of Nephrology, National Hospital Organization Kyoto MedicalCenter, Kyoto, Japan.(12)Department of Medical Oncology, Toranomon Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.(13)Nephrology Center, Toranomon Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.(14)Department of Medical Oncology, Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital,Kobe, Japan.(15)Department of Nephrology, Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital, Kobe,Japan.(16)Human Health Sciences, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, KyotoUniversity, Kyoto, Japan.(17)Department of Nephrology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University,Kyoto, Japan.(18)Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Kyoto UniversityHospital, Kyoto, Japan.(19)Department of Healthcare Epidemiology, Graduate School of Medicine and PublicHealth, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.Background: Cancer is a major cause of death in patients undergoinghaemodialysis. However, information about the actual clinical practice ofchemotherapy for patients with cancer undergoing haemodialysis is lacking. Weconducted a nationwide survey using questionnaires on the clinical practice ofchemotherapy for such patients.Patients and methods: The nationwide survey included patients undergoinghaemodialysis who were subsequently diagnosed with cancer in 20 hospitals inJapan from January 2010 to December 2012. We reviewed their clinical data,including cancer at the following primary sites: kidney, colorectum, stomach,lung, liver, bladder, pancreas and breast. The questionnaires consisted of thefollowing subjects: (1) patient characteristics; (2) regimen, dosage and timingof chemotherapy; and (3) clinical outcome.Results: Overall, 675 patients were registered and assessed for main primarycancer site involvement. Of 507 patients with primary site involvement, 74patients (15%) received chemotherapy (44 as palliative chemotherapy and 30 asperioperative chemotherapy). The most commonly used cytotoxic drugs werefluoropyrimidine (15 patients), platinum (8 patients) and taxane (8 patients),and the dosage and timing of these drugs differed between institutions; however, the dosage of molecular targeted drugs (24 patients) and hormone therapy drugs(15 patients) was consistent. The median survival time of patients receivingpalliative chemotherapy was 13.0 months (0.1-60.3 months). Three patients (6.8%) died from treatment-related causes and nine patients (20%) died of causes otherthan cancer. Of the 30 patients who received perioperative chemotherapy, 6 (20%) died of causes other than cancer within 3 years after the initiation ofchemotherapy.Conclusion: Among the haemodialysis patients with cancer who receivedchemotherapy, the rates of mortality from causes other than cancer might be high for both palliative and perioperative chemotherapy. Indications for the use ofchemotherapy in patients undergoing haemodialysis should be considered carefully.DOI: 10.1136/esmoopen-2017-000301 PMCID: PMC5844381PMID: 29531838 