108. J Control Release. 2018 May 10;277:142-153. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.03.013.Epub 2018 Mar 13.N-trimethyl chitosan nanoparticles and CSKSSDYQC peptide: N-trimethyl chitosanconjugates enhance the oral bioavailability of gemcitabine to treat breastcancer.Chen G(1), Svirskis D(1), Lu W(2), Ying M(2), Huang Y(3), Wen J(4).Author information: (1)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medical and Health Science, University ofAuckland, New Zealand.(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Fudan University, China.(3)Key Laboratory of Drug Targeting and Drug Delivery System, Ministry ofEducation, West China School of Pharmacy, Sichuan University, China.(4)School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medical and Health Science, University ofAuckland, New Zealand. Electronic address: j.wen@auckland.ac.nz.Gemcitabine is a nucleoside analogue effective against a number of cancers.However, the full potential of this drug has not been realised, in part due tolow oral bioavailability and frequent dosing requirements. This study reports thesynthesis, in-vitro, ex-vivo and in-vivo evaluation of trimethyl chitosan (TMC) -CSKSSDYQC (CSK) peptide conjugates capable of enhancing the oral bioavailability of gemcitabine due to the ability to target intestinal goblet cells and promoteintestinal cellular uptake. TMC was synthesized by a novel two-step methylationmethod to improve quanternization and yield. The CSK-TMC conjugates were preparedby ionic gelation to achieve particles sized at 173.6 ± 6.8 nm, zeta potential of+18.5 ± 0.2 mV and entrapment efficiency of 66.4 ± 0.1%, capable of sustaineddrug release. By encapsulating gemcitabine into CSK-TMC conjugates, an increased amount of drug permeated through porcine intestinal epithelial membranes comparedwith the unconjugated TMC nanoparticles (NPs). The rate of cellular uptake ofdrug loaded conjugates into HT29-MTX-E12 intestinal goblet cells, was time- andconcentration-dependant. The conjugates underwent active transport associatedwith adsorptive mediated, clathrin and caveolae mediated endocytosis. In cellulartransport studies, drug loaded conjugates had greater drug transport capabilitycompared with drug solution and TMC NPs over the co-cultured Caco-2/HT29-MTX-E12 cell monolayer. The drug loaded conjugates exhibited electrostatic interactionwith the intestinal epithelial cells. Both P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and multipleresistance protein-2 (MRP2) efflux affected the cellular transport of theconjugates. Importantly, during the pharmacokinetic studies, the orallyadministrated drug loaded into TMC NPs showed an improved oral bioavailability of54.0%, compared with gemcitabine solution of 9.9%. Notable, the CSK-TMCconjugates further improved oral bioavailability to 60.1% and reduced the tumour growth rate in a BALB/c nude mouse model, with a 5.1-fold and 3.3-fold reduction compare with the non-treated group and gemcitabine solution group. Furthermore,no major evidence of toxicity was discernible on histologic studies of selectedorgans. In conclusion, the presented CSK-TMC conjugates and TMC nanoparticlesboth significantly improve the oral bioavailability of gemcitabine and have thepotential for the treatment of breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.03.013 PMID: 29548985 