174. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2018 May;44(5):725-730. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.02.211. Epub2018 Mar 6.Radioactive seed localisation of non-palpable lymph nodes - A feasibility study.Hassing CMS(1), Tvedskov TF(2), Kroman N(2), Klausen TL(3), Drejøe JB(4),Tvedskov JF(5), Lambine TL(6), Kledal H(6), Lelkaitis G(7), Langhans L(2).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Surgery, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen,Denmark. Electronic address: christina.marie.schioettz.hassing@regionh.dk.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen,Denmark.(3)Department of Clinical Physiology, Nuclear Medicine and PET, Rigshospitalet,University of Copenhagen, Denmark.(4)Department of Plastic Surgery and Burns, Rigshospitalet, University ofCopenhagen, Denmark.(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery & Audiology,Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.(6)Department of Radiology, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.(7)Department of Pathology, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.BACKGROUND: Radioactive seed localisation (RSL) is a preoperative localisationmethod using a small titanium seed containing iodine-125. The method isincreasingly applied for localising non-palpable lesions in the treatment ofbreast cancer. We believe that RSL has the potential to be used in varioussurgical specialties. The aim of this feasibility study was to test RSL as apreoperative localisation of non-palpable lymph nodes.METHODS: Between November 24, 2015 and October 26, 2016, 15 patients withsuspicious lymph nodes on imaging were included in the study. The lymph nodeswere located in the axillary region (n = 9), the head and neck region (n = 5) andthe inguinal region (n = 1). The seeds were placed in the centre of the lymphnode, in the capsule or just outside the capsule guided by ultrasound. Duringsurgery, incision and localisation of the lymph nodes were performed based on theauditory signal of the gamma probe. After excision, lymph nodes including iodine seeds were sent for pathologic examination and the seeds were returned to theDepartment of Nuclear Medicine.RESULTS: The non-palpable lymph nodes were all successfully marked usingultrasound. The lymph nodes were successfully localised and excised duringsurgery, and the procedure was performed without complications in the majority ofthe cases.CONCLUSION: Localisation of suspicious non-palpable lymph nodes using RSL isfeasible. RSL may ease the surgical procedure, minimise trauma to the surroundingtissue and ultimately benefit the patient. Future prospective studies arenecessary to determine the further use of RSL within different surgicalspecialties.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd, BASO ~ The Association for Cancer Surgery, and theEuropean Society of Surgical Oncology. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.02.211 PMID: 29545086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]