176. Soc Sci Med. 2018 Mar 8. pii: S0277-9536(18)30117-5. doi:10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.03.016. [Epub ahead of print]Walking groups for women with breast cancer: Mobilising therapeutic assemblagesof walk, talk and place.Ireland AV(1), Finnegan-John J(2), Hubbard G(3), Scanlon K(4), Kyle RG(5).Author information: (1)Faculty of Health Sciences and Sport, University of Stirling, UK. Electronicaddress: a.v.ireland@stir.ac.uk.(2)Breast Cancer Care, Kennington Business Park, Chester House, 1-3 Brixton Road,London SW9 6DE, UK. Electronic address:jennifer.finnegan-john@breastcancercare.org.uk.(3)Department of Nursing, University of the Highlands and Islands, Centre forHealth Science, Old Perth Road, Inverness IV2 3JH UK. Electronic address:gill.hubbard@uhi.ac.uk.(4)Breast Cancer Care, Kennington Business Park, Chester House, 1-3 Brixton Road,London SW9 6DE, UK. Electronic address: karen.scanlon@breastcancercare.org.uk.(5)School of Health & Social Care, Edinburgh Napier University, Sighthill Campus,9 Sighthill Court, Edinburgh EH11 4BN, UK. Electronic address:r.kyle@napier.ac.uk.Walking is widely accepted as a safe and effective method of promotingrehabilitation and a return to physical activity after a cancer diagnosis. Littleresearch has considered the therapeutic qualities of landscape in relation tounderstanding women's recovery from breast cancer, and no study has consideredthe supportive and therapeutic benefits that walking groups might contribute totheir wellbeing. Through a study of a volunteer-led walking group interventionfor women living with and beyond breast cancer (Best Foot Forward) we addressthis gap. A mixed-methods design was used including questionnaires with walkers(n = 35) and walk leaders (n = 13); telephone interviews with walkers (n = 4) andwalk leaders (n = 9); and walking interviews conducted outdoors and on the movewith walkers (n = 15) and walk leaders (n = 4). Questionnaires were analyseddescriptively. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim, and analysedthematically. Our study found that the combination of walking and talking enabledconversations to roam freely between topics and individuals, encouraging everydayand cancer-related conversation that created a form of 'shoulder-to-shouldersupport' that might not occur in sedentary supportive care settings. Walkinginterviews pointed to three facets of the outdoor landscape - as un/natural,dis/placed and im/mobile - that walkers felt imbued it with therapeuticqualities. 'Shoulder-to-shoulder support' was therefore found to be contingent onthe therapeutic assemblage of place, walk and talk. Thus, beyond the physicalbenefits that walking brings, it is the complex assemblage of walking and talkingin combination with the fluid navigation between multiple spaces that mobilises atherapeutic assemblage that promotes wellbeing in people living with and beyondbreast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.03.016 PMID: 29544916 