187. Comput Biol Med. 2018 May 1;96:41-51. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2018.03.003. Epub2018 Mar 8.Automatic classification of tissue malignancy for breast carcinoma diagnosis.Fondón I(1), Sarmiento A(2), García AI(1), Silvestre M(1), Eloy C(3), PolóniaA(4), Aguiar P(5).Author information: (1)Signal Processing and Communication Department, Engineering School, Universityof Seville, Seville, Spain.(2)Signal Processing and Communication Department, Engineering School, Universityof Seville, Seville, Spain. Electronic address: sarmiento@us.es.(3)Pathology Department, Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology(Ipatimup), University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; Medical Faculty, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.(4)Pathology Department, Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology(Ipatimup), University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.(5)Institute of Biomedical Engineering (INEB), University of Porto, Porto,Portugal; Institute for Research and Innovation in Health Sciences (i3S), Porto, Portugal.Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death among women. Its early diagnosis is extremely important to prevent avoidable deaths. However, malignancyassessment of tissue biopsies is complex and dependent on observer subjectivity. Moreover, hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained histological images exhibit ahighly variable appearance, even within the same malignancy level. In this paper,we propose a computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) tool for automated malignancyassessment of breast tissue samples based on the processing of histologicalimages. We provide four malignancy levels as the output of the system: normal,benign, in situ and invasive. The method is based on the calculation of threesets of features related to nuclei, colour regions and textures considering localcharacteristics and global image properties. By taking advantage ofwell-established image processing techniques, we build a feature vector for each image that serves as an input to an SVM (Support Vector Machine) classifier with a quadratic kernel. The method has been rigorously evaluated, first with a 5-foldcross-validation within an initial set of 120 images, second with an external setof 30 different images and third with images with artefacts included. Accuracylevels range from 75.8% when the 5-fold cross-validation was performed to 75%with the external set of new images and 61.11% when the extremely difficultimages were added to the classification experiment. The experimental resultsindicate that the proposed method is capable of distinguishing between fourmalignancy levels with high accuracy. Our results are close to those obtainedwith recent deep learning-based methods. Moreover, it performs better than other state-of-the-art methods based on feature extraction, and it can help improve theCAD of breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2018.03.003 PMID: 29544146 