Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflictsof interest related to this article.4. Biomed Opt Express. 2018 Feb 13;9(3):1130-1150. doi: 10.1364/BOE.9.001130.eCollection 2018 Mar 1.Impact of errors in experimental parameters on reconstructed breast images using diffuse optical tomography.Deng B(1), Lundqvist M(2), Fang Q(3), Carp SA(1).Author information: (1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Athinoula A. Martinos Center for BiomedicalImaging, Charlestown, MA 02129, USA.(2)Philips Healthcare, Torshamnsgatan 30A, 164 40 Kista, Sweden.(3)Department of Bioengineering, Northeastern University, Boston, MA 02115, USA.Near-infrared diffuse optical tomography (NIR-DOT) is an emerging technology thatoffers hemoglobin based, functional imaging tumor biomarkers for breast cancermanagement. The most promising clinical translation opportunities are in thedifferential diagnosis of malignant vs. benign lesions, and in early responseassessment and guidance for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Accurate quantification of the tissue oxy- and deoxy-hemoglobin concentration across the field of view, aswell as repeatability during longitudinal imaging in the context of therapyguidance, are essential for the successful translation of NIR-DOT to clinicalpractice. The ill-posed and ill-condition nature of the DOT inverse problem makesthis technique particularly susceptible to model errors that may occur, forexample, when the experimental conditions do not fully match the assumptionsbuilt into the image reconstruction process. To evaluate the susceptibility ofDOT images to experimental errors that might be encountered in practice for aparallel-plate NIR-DOT system, we simulated 7 different types of errors, eachwith a range of magnitudes. We generated simulated data by using digital breastphantoms derived from five actual mammograms of healthy female volunteers, towhich we added a 1-cm tumor. After applying each of the experimental error types and magnitudes to the simulated measurements, we reconstructed optical imageswith and without structural prior guidance and assessed the overall error in the total hemoglobin concentrations (HbT) and in the HbT contrast between the lesion and surrounding area vs. the best-case scenarios. It is found that slightin-plane probe misalignment and plate rotation did not result in largequantification errors. However, any out-of-plane probe tilting could result insignificant deterioration in lesion contrast. Among the error types investigated in this work, optical images were the least likely to be impacted by breast shapeinaccuracies but suffered the largest deterioration due to cross-talk betweensignal channels. However, errors in optical images could be effectivelycontrolled when experimental parameters were properly estimated during dataacquisition and accounted for in the image processing procedure. Finally, opticalimages recovered using structural priors were, in general, less susceptible toexperimental errors; however, lesion contrasts were more sensitive to errors whentumor locations were used as a priori info. Findings in this simulation study canprovide guidelines for system design and operation in optical breast imagingstudies.DOI: 10.1364/BOE.9.001130 PMCID: PMC5846518PMID: 29541508 