131. Horm Cancer. 2018 Aug;9(4):229-239. doi: 10.1007/s12672-018-0329-6. Epub 2018 Mar15.Adiposity Results in Metabolic and Inflammation Differences in Premenopausal and Postmenopausal Women Consistent with the Difference in Breast Cancer Risk.Zhao H(1)(2), Wang J(3), Fang D(4), Lee O(5), Chatterton RT(4)(6)(7), StearnsV(8), Khan SA(5), Bulun SE(4).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Feinberg School of Medicine,Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA. h-zhao@northwestern.edu.(2)Division of Reproductive Science in Medicine, Department of Obstetrics andGynecology, Feinberg School of Medicine at Northwestern University, Robert H.Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, 303 E. Superior Street, Suite 4-121, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA. h-zhao@northwestern.edu.(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, NorthwesternUniversity, Chicago, IL, USA.(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Feinberg School of Medicine,Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.(5)Department of Surgery, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University,Chicago, IL, USA.(6)Department of Physiology, Feinberg School of Medicine, NorthwesternUniversity, Chicago, IL, USA.(7)Department of Pathology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University,Chicago, IL, USA.(8)Kimmel Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.Obesity is associated with increased risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal but not in premenopausal women. Many factors may be responsible for this difference. The aim of this study was to determine the mechanisms by which the genes related to the AMPK pathway, inflammation, and estrogen actions are affected by adiposityin breast tissue with the objective of identifying differences that may explainthe different breast cancer risk in premenopausal and postmenopausal women.Random fine needle aspirates (rFNAs) of breast tissue were collected from 57premenopausal and 55 postmenopausal women and were classified as normal weight,overweight, or obese. Expression levels of 21 target genes were determined using a TaqMan Low Density Array procedure. Breast tissue estradiol levels weremeasured by a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry procedure, and serumestradiol and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) were measured by aradioimmunoassay and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. We foundthat in postmenopausal women, serum and tissue estradiol levels were increased inthose who were overweight, and serum FSH levels were decreased in obese status.Interestingly, RPS6KB1, an AMPK downstream-responsive gene for protein synthesis and cell growth, and estrogen receptor α (encoded by the ESR1 gene) and itstarget gene GATA3 were significantly decreased in rFNA of premenopausal, obesewomen. In postmenopausal women, RPS6KB1, ESR1, and GATA3 expression remainedunchanged in relation to adiposity. However, prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2), cyclin D1 (CCND1), and another ESR1 target gene, TFF1, were elevatedin rFNA of obese postmenopausal women. Thus, as bodyweight increases, geneexpression is indicative of increased proliferation in postmenopausal women butdecreased proliferation in premenopausal women. Overall, our data reveal a novel process by which obesity promotes the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal butnot premenopausal women.DOI: 10.1007/s12672-018-0329-6 PMID: 29546532 