128. Bioconjug Chem. 2018 Apr 18;29(4):1399-1405. doi:10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.8b00098. Epub 2018 Mar 20.Label-Free Fluorescent DNA Dendrimers for microRNA Detection Based On NonlinearHybridization Chain Reaction-Mediated Multiple G-Quadruplex with Low BackgroundSignal.Xue Q(1), Liu C(1), Li X(1), Dai L(2), Wang H(1).Author information: (1)Department of Chemistry , Liaocheng University , Liaocheng , 252059 , Shandong, China.(2)Dongchangfu county education bureau , Liaocheng , 252059 , Shandong , China.Various fluorescent sensing systems for miRNA detection have been developed, but they mostly contain enzymatic amplification reactions and label procedures. Thestrict reaction conditions of tool enzymes and the high cost of labeling limittheir potential applications, especially in complex biological matrices. Here, wehave addressed the difficult problems and report a strategy for label-freefluorescent DNA dendrimers based on enzyme-free nonlinear hybridization chainreaction (HCR)-mediated multiple G-quadruplex for simple, sensitive, andselective detection of miRNAs with low-background signal. In the strategy, asplit G-quadruplex (3:1) sequence is ingeniously designed at both ends of twodouble-stranded DNAs, which is exploited as building blocks for nonlinear HCRassembly, thereby acquiring a low background signal. A hairpin switch probe (HSP)was employed as recognition and transduction element. Upon sensing the targetmiRNA, the nonlinear HCR assembly of two blocks (blocks-A and blocks-B) wasinitiated with the help of two single-stranded DNA assistants, resulting inchain-branching growth of DNA dendrimers with multiple G-quadruplexincorporation. With the zinc(II)-protoporphyrin IX (ZnPPIX) selectivelyintercalated into the multiple G-quadruplexes, fluorescent DNA dendrimers wereobtained, leading to an exponential fluorescence intensity increase. Benefitingfrom excellent performances of nonlinear HCR and low background signal, thisstrategy possesses the characteristics of a simplified reaction operationprocess, as well as high sensitivity. Moreover, the proposed fluorescent sensing strategy also shows preferable selectivity, and can be implemented withoutmodified DNA blocks. Importantly, the strategy has also been tested for miRNAquantification with high confidence in breast cancer cells. Thus, this proposedstrategy for label-free fluorescent DNA dendrimers based on a nonlinearHCR-mediated multiple G-quadruplex will be turned into an alternative approachfor simple, sensitive, and selective miRNA quantification.DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.8b00098 PMID: 29546979 