130. Int J Behav Med. 2018 Mar 15. doi: 10.1007/s12529-018-9715-2. [Epub ahead ofprint]Sleepless from the Get Go: Sleep Problems Prior to Initiating Cancer Treatment.Zhou ES(1)(2), Clark K(3), Recklitis CJ(4)(5), Obenchain R(3), Loscalzo M(3).Author information: (1)Perini Family Survivors' Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA,USA. eric_zhou@dfci.harvard.edu.(2)Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.eric_zhou@dfci.harvard.edu.(3)Supportive Care Medicine, City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte, CA,USA.(4)Perini Family Survivors' Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA,USA.(5)Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.PURPOSE: Cancer patients are likely to experience sleep problems. Understandingtheir perception of sleep problems is important as subjective symptom experience is associated with treatment-seeking behavior. We explored the prevalence ofsleep problems and its correlates in a large sample of cancer patients at animportant but understudied stage of their cancer journey: prior to initiatingtreatment.METHODS: Cancer patients (5702) (67.5% female; 76.9% White; 23.0% Hispanic),following diagnosis and prior to initiating cancer treatment, completed anelectronic screening instrument. Patients across eight different cancer diagnoses(breast, gastrointestinal, gynecological, head and neck, hematological, lung,prostate, urinary) rated their sleep problems on a five-point scale, with thosereporting "severe" or "very severe" sleep problems classified as having highsleep problems.RESULTS: Overall, 12.5% of patients reported high sleep problems. Acrossdiagnoses, the proportion of patients reporting high sleep problems ranged from4.3 to 13.8%, with prostate cancer patients least likely and gastrointestinalcancer patients most likely to report high sleep problems. Older age, having apartner, higher education, and higher household income were associated with alower likelihood of experiencing sleep problems. Being female, Black, Hispanic,and reporting anxiety or depression was associated with an increased likelihoodof sleep problems.CONCLUSIONS: A sizeable proportion of cancer patients experience significantproblems with their sleep before any treatment has occurred. This clinical issue cannot be ignored as treatment is likely to worsen existing sleep problems.Oncology providers should routinely screen for sleep-related problems.Identifying and treating patients for sleep problems during a vulnerable periodearly in their cancer trajectory should be an essential component of clinicalcare.DOI: 10.1007/s12529-018-9715-2 PMID: 29546585 