95. Surg Oncol. 2018 Mar;27(1):95-99. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2018.01.001. Epub 2018Jan 8.Impact of breast MRI in women eligible for breast conservation surgery andintra-operative radiation therapy.Paudel N(1), Bethke KP(2), Wang LC(3), Strauss JB(1), Hayes JP(1), DonnellyED(4).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center,Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(2)Department of Surgical Oncology-Breast Surgery, Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(3)Department of Radiology-Breast Imaging, Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive CancerCenter, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center,Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. Electronicaddress: edonnel2@nm.org.PURPOSE: The current standard of care for women diagnosed with early stage breastcancer is breast-conserving surgery (BCS) followed by external beam radiationtherapy, commonly delivered over 3-6 weeks. As an alternative, select patientscan undergo intra-operative radiation therapy (IORT) at the time of BCT. Thistechnique delivers a single fraction of radiation at the time of surgery,enabling patients to undergo both surgery and radiation in a single session. Our current study analyzed the value of incorporating breast MRI into the routinework-up of patients deemed eligible for IORT, to quantify the impact on patienteligibility and requirement for additional work-up.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively identified patients treated by a singlesurgeon who were eligible for IORT based on institutional eligibility criteriawhich included: women age ≥55, grades 1-2, size <3 cm, estrogen receptor (ER)positive, Her-2 neu non-amplified and low/intermediate Ki-67, unifocal invasiveductal/mixed histology carcinomas. All patients must have undergone a physicalexam and bilateral diagnostic mammography with ultrasound. From this population, we identified all patients who had undergone bilateral breast MRI as part ofpre-operative evaluation.RESULTS: A total of 215 women were identified who met all eligibility criteria.MRI detected additional abnormalities in the breast in 89 patients (41%).Sixty-eight women underwent additional biopsies, with a total of 117 separatelesions biopsied. Of these, pathology was benign in 61 (52.1%), atypical ductalhyperplasia (ADH) in 21 (18%), ductal carcinoma in-situ (DCIS) in 17 (14.5%) and invasive disease in 18 (15.4%). Six patients had MRI-detected abnormalities inthe contralateral breast only, with biopsies identifying invasive disease (3),DCIS (1) and benign (2) findings. MRI showed abnormalities in both breasts in 6patients and 18 additional lesions were biopsied which reveled invasive carcinoma(6), DCIS (7), ADH (3) and benign findings (2). Fifteen patients had eithermultifocal/multicentric disease or index lesion >3 cm on MRI and were deemedineligible for IORT. Based on either MRI size or biopsy results, management wasultimately changed for 27 patients (12.5%). Extramammary findings were observedin 17 patients and 11 of these patients underwent further imaging studies all of which returned negative results.CONCLUSION: Preoperative bilateral breast MRI is a valuable tool in the properselection of patients best suited for IORT. Even in highly selected, favorablerisk patients, MRI detected additional lesions that changed surgical andradiation therapy recommendations in 12.5% of patients. However, the cost/benefitratio needs to be taken into consideration given the high frequency of benignbiopsies and additional radiological work-up.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2018.01.001 PMID: 29549911 