110. Cancer Lett. 2018 Jun 28;424:70-83. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.03.014. Epub 2018 Mar 14.Histamine receptor 1 inhibition enhances antitumor therapeutic responses through extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation in breast cancer.Fernández-Nogueira P(1), Noguera-Castells A(1), Fuster G(1), Recalde-Percaz L(1),Moragas N(1), López-Plana A(1), Enreig E(1), Jauregui P(1), Carbó N(2), Almendro V(1), Gascón P(3), Bragado P(4), Mancino M(5).Author information: (1)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona,Spain; Department of Medicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biomedicine, University of Barcelona,Barcelona, Spain.(3)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona,Spain; Department of Medicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain;Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biomedicine, University of Barcelona,Barcelona, Spain; Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona,Spain.(4)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona,Spain; Department of Medicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.Electronic address: bragado@clinic.cat.(5)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona,Spain; Department of Medicine, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.Electronic address: mmancino@clinic.cat.Histamine receptor 1 (HRH1) belongs to the rhodopsin-like G-protein-coupledreceptor family. Its activation by histamine triggers cell proliferation,embryonic development, and tumor growth. We recently established that HRH1 isup-regulated in basal and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(HER2)-enriched human breast tumors and that its expression correlates with aworse prognosis. Nevertheless, the functional role of HRH1 in basal andHER2-targeted therapy-resistant breast cancer (BC) progression has not yet beenaddressed. Using terfenadine, a selective chemical inhibitor of HRH1, we showedthat the inhibition of HRH1 activity in basal BC cells leads to sub-G0 cellaccumulation, suppresses proliferation, promotes cell motility and triggers theactivation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling, initiatingthe mitochondrial apoptotic pathway. Furthermore, HER2-targeted therapy-resistantcells express higher levels of HRH1 and are more sensitive to terfenadinetreatment. Moreover, in vivo experiments showed that terfenadine therapy reduced the tumor growth of basal and trastuzumab-resistant BC cells. In conclusion, our results suggest that targeting HRH1 is a promising new clinical approach toconsider that could enhance the effectiveness of current therapeutic treatment inpatients with basal and BC tumors resistant to HER2-targeted therapies.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.03.014 PMID: 29548821 