115. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2018 Apr;124:51-60. doi:10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.02.005. Epub 2018 Feb 8.Hormone replacement therapy in cancer survivors: Utopia?Angioli R(1), Luvero D(2), Armento G(3), Capriglione S(1), Plotti F(1), Scaletta G(1), Lopez S(1), Montera R(1), Gatti A(1), Serra GB(1), Benedetti Panici P(4),Terranova C(1).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Campus Biomedico University, Rome,Italy.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Campus Biomedico University, Rome,Italy. Electronic address: d.luvero@unicampus.it.(3)Department of Oncology, Campus Biomedico University, Rome, Italy.(4)Department of Gynecological and Obstetric Sciences, and Urological Sciences,University of Rome "Sapienza", Umberto I Hospital, Rome, Italy.As growing of old women population, menopausal women will also increase: anaccurate estimation of postmenopausal population is an essential information for health care providers considering that with aging, the incidence of all cancersis expected to increase. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) has proven to behighly effective in alleviating menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes, nightsweats, dyspareunia, sexual disorders, and insomnia and in preventingosteoporosis. According to preclinical data, estrogen and progesterone aresupposed to be involved in the induction and progression of breast andendometrial cancers. Similarly, in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), thepathogenesis seems to be at least partly hormonally influenced. Is HRT ingynecological cancer survivors possible? The literature data are controversial.Many clinicians remain reluctant to prescribe HRT for these patients due to thefear of relapse and the risk to develop coronary heart disease or breast cancer. Before the decision to use HRT an accurate counselling should be mandatory inorder to individualizing on the basis of potential risks and benefits, including a close follow-up. Nevertheless, we do believe that with strong informed consent doctors may individually consider to prescribe some course of HRT in order tominimize menopausal symptoms and disease related to hormonal reduction.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.02.005 PMID: 29548486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]