86. Free Radic Biol Med. 2018 May 20;120:133-146. doi:10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2018.03.012. Epub 2018 Mar 14.The biological age linked to oxidative stress modifies breast canceraggressiveness.Sáez-Freire MDM(1), Blanco-Gómez A(2), Castillo-Lluva S(3), Gómez-Vecino A(4),Galvis-Jiménez JM(5), Martín-Seisdedos C(6), Isidoro-García M(7),Hontecillas-Prieto L(8), García-Cenador MB(9), García-Criado FJ(10),Patino-Alonso MC(11), Galindo-Villardón P(12), Mao JH(13), Prieto C(14),Castellanos-Martín A(15), Kaderali L(16), Pérez-Losada J(17).Author information: (1)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidad de Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain; Departamento de Fisiología y Farmacología,Universidad de Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address:maria_del_mar@usal.es.(2)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidad de Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address: adrianblanco@usal.es.(3)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidad de Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain; Departamento de Bioquímica y BiologíaMolecular I, Facultad de Biología, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Madrid,Spain. Electronic address: scastillolluva@usal.es.(4)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidad de Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address: auroragvrm@gmail.com.(5)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidad de Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain; Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, Bogotá, D.C., Colombia. Electronic address: jmgalvis@usal.es.(6)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Salamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca,Spain; Servicio de Bioquímica Clínica, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca,Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address: mcmartin@saludcastillayleon.es.(7)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Salamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca,Spain; Servicio de Bioquímica Clínica, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca,Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address: misidoro@usal.es.(8)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidad de Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address: lhontecillas-ibis@us.es.(9)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Salamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca,Spain; Departamento de Cirugía, Universidad de Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain.Electronic address: mbgc@usal.es.(10)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Salamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca,Spain; Departamento de Cirugía, Universidad de Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain.Electronic address: fjgc@usal.es.(11)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Salamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca,Spain; Departamento de Estadística, Universidad de Salamanca, Spain. Electronicaddress: carpatino@usal.es.(12)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria de Salamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca,Spain; Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology Division, Lawrence BerkeleyNational Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. Electronic address:pgalindo@usal.es.(13)Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology Division, Lawrence BerkeleyNational Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. Electronic address: jhmao@lbl.gov.(14)Bioinformatics Service, Nucleus, University of Salamanca (USAL), Salamanca,Spain. Electronic address: cprietos@usal.es.(15)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidadde Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address:andres.castellanos@irbbarcelona.org.(16)Institute for Bioinformatics, University Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald,Germany. Electronic address: lars.kaderali@uni-greifswald.de.(17)Instituto de Biología Molecular y Celular del Cáncer (IBMCC-CIC), Universidadde Salamanca/CSIC, Salamanca, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria deSalamanca (IBSAL), Salamanca, Spain. Electronic address: jperezlosada@usal.es.The incidence of breast cancer increases with age until menopause, and breastcancer is more aggressive in younger women. The existence of epidemiologicallinks between breast cancer and aging indicates that both processes share somecommon mechanisms of development. Oxidative stress is associated with both cancersusceptibility and aging. Here we observed that ERBB2-positive breast cancer,which developed in genetically heterogeneous ERBB2-positive transgenic micegenerated by a backcross, is more aggressive in chronologically younger than inolder mice (differentiated by the median survival of the cohort that was 79weeks), similar to what occurs in humans. In this cohort, we estimated theoxidative biological age using a mathematical model that integrated severalsubphenotypes directly or indirectly related to oxidative stress. The modelselected the serum levels of HDL-cholesterol and magnesium and total AKT1 andglutathione concentrations in the liver. The grade of aging was calculated as thedifference between the predicted biological age and the chronological age. Thiscomparison permitted the identification of biologically younger and older micecompared with their chronological age. Interestingly, biologically older micedeveloped more aggressive breast cancer than the biologically younger mice.Genomic regions on chromosomes 2 and 15 linked to the grade of oxidative agingwere identified. The levels of expression of Zbp1 located on chromosome 2, a generelated to necroptosis and inflammation, positively correlated with the grade of aging and tumour aggressiveness. Moreover, the pattern of gene expression ofgenes linked to the inflammation and the response to infection pathways wasenriched in the livers of biologically old mice. This study shows part of thecomplex interactions between breast cancer and aging.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2018.03.012 PMID: 29550329 