59. Breast Cancer (Dove Med Press). 2018 Mar 6;10:39-49. doi: 10.2147/BCTT.S137508.eCollection 2018.Spotlight on triptorelin in the treatment of premenopausal women with early-stagebreast cancer.Venturelli M(1), Guaitoli G(1), Omarini C(1), Moscetti L(2).Author information: (1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences for Children & Adults, University Hospital of Modena, Modena, Italy.(2)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology and Hematology, AziendaOspedaliero Universitaria Policlinico di Modena, Modena, Italy.Endocrine treatment represents the cornerstone of endocrine-sensitivepremenopausal early breast cancer. The estrogen blockade plays a leading role in the therapeutic management of hormone receptor-positive breast cancer togetherwith surgery, radiotherapy, and selective antiestrogen treatments. For severalyears, selective estrogen receptor modulators, such as tamoxifen, haverepresented the mainstay of therapy. The role of amenorrhea has been extensively elucidated in the past year: the benefit observed with chemotherapy-inducedamenorrhea has strengthened its therapeutic role. Luteinizing hormone-releasinghormone (LHRH) has been introduced in oncology practice to induce amenorrhea inorder to increase the advantage obtained from endocrine treatment. Triptorelin isone of the most widely used LHRH analogs currently available in clinicalpractice. It was recently investigated in two major clinical trials that studied the role of complete estrogen blockade in the premenopausal setting. Both showed the clinical benefit due to ovarian suppression treatment, primarily in high-riskpatients. Furthermore, triptorelin and other LHRH analogs have recently beeninvestigated in the attempt to preserve the ovarian function in young patients.The medical treatment of early breast cancer is always evolving in the effort to search for safe and efficacious treatments. The role of LHRH analogs is actually well recognized as contributing to the improvement of the medical treatment ofpremenopausal women with early breast cancer.DOI: 10.2147/BCTT.S137508 PMCID: PMC5844254PMID: 29551913 