67. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2018 Apr;33:22-27. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2018.01.008. Epub 2018Feb 3.Longitudinal trends in skin-related and global quality of life among women withbreast radiodermatitis: A pilot study.Beamer LC(1), Grant M(2).Author information: (1)School of Nursing, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, USA; College ofNursing, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA. Electronic address:LABeamer@gmail.com.(2)Nursing Research, City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte, CA, USA.Electronic address: marciagrant113@gmail.com.PURPOSE: The purpose of this pilot study was to explore the relationship between skin-related quality of life (SR-QOL) and global quality of life (G-QOL) amongwomen experiencing breast radiodermatitis, measure change in SR-QOL and G-QOLbetween the start and fifth week on radiotherapy, and examine the trend in SR-QOLand severity of radiodermatitis over time on treatment.METHODS: A descriptive longitudinal study using repeated measurements wasimplemented. Forty women undergoing whole breast 3-dimensional conformalradiotherapy at a comprehensive community cancer center completed the DermatologyLife Quality Index (DLQI) weekly and Quality of Life-Breast Cancer PatientVersion at baseline before and at five weeks on radiotherapy. Skin toxicity wasmeasured weekly using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) Acute RadiationMorbidity Scoring Criteria-Skin scale. A Kendall's tau correlation explored therelationship between measures of SR-QOL and G-QOL. Paired t-tests measured thechange in SR-QOL and G-QOL from baseline to fifth week on radiotherapy. The mean of the baseline and weekly total DLQI and RTOG scores was calculated and plotted on a graph.RESULTS: In general, SR-QOL and G-QOL were highly correlated. SR-QOL changedprofoundly (p < .001) while G-QOL did not change (p = .55) between baseline andfive weeks on radiotherapy. SR-QOL and radiodermatitis steadily worsened overtime.CONCLUSIONS: Radiation-induced skin toxicity has a major impact on SR-QOL but notG-QOL. This study provides much-needed scientific evidence to inform a largerfuture study in a community setting. Recommendations for future studies includeinclusion of a skin-sensitive survey of radiodermatitis; larger, more diversecommunity-dwelling sample.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2018.01.008 PMID: 29551173  [Indexed for MEDLINE]