125. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2018 Apr;27(4):509-513. doi: 10.17219/acem/68293.Clinicopathological features of metaplastic breast carcinoma.Hasdemir OA(1), Tokgöz S(1), Köybaşıoğlu F(2), Karabacak H(1), Yücesoy C(3),İmamoğlu Gİ(4).Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, Ministry of Health Dışkapı Yıldırım BeyazıtTraining and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.(2)Department of Pathology, Ministry of Health Dışkapı Yıldırım Beyazıt Training and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.(3)Department of Radiology, Ministry of Health Dışkapı Yıldırım Beyazıt Training and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Ministry of Health Dışkapı Yıldırım BeyazıtTraining and Research Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.BACKGROUND: Metaplastic carcinoma of the breast (MpBC) is defined as a group ofheterogeneous malignant neoplasms that contain glandular and non-glandularcomponents with mixed epithelial and mesenchymal differentiations.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to research the clinical and pathologicalcharacteristics of MpBC determining its rank among all breast cancers.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Metaplastic carcinoma of the breast was found in 7 out of1,164 patients who had been diagnosed with breast cancer within the period of 12 years in our hospital. Demographic and clinical characteristics of the patientswere retrieved from the patient files, and their final status was verified by aphone call. Diagnoses of the patients were confirmed by examining hematohylen andeosin (H&E) preparations. They were stained immunohistochemically for estrogenreceptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), C-erbB-2, CK5/6 (Sitokeratin5/6), and EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor), and the subgroups were determinedaccording to the WHO classification.RESULTS: All patients were female with a median age of 61 years (41-87 years).Three of them were diagnosed with stage IIB, 2 with IIIB and 1 with IV. Fourpatients had squamous type of metaplastic cell differentiation, 1 spindle, 1adenosquamous, and 1 osteosarcomatous. In 6 out of 7 patients, ER, PR andC-erbB-2 expressions were negative immunohistochemically. In the case of squamousmetaplasia, estrogen receptor was 10% and progesterone receptor was 5% positive. CK5/6 was positive in 5 cases. Epidermal growth factor was positive in all cases.CONCLUSIONS: Metaplastic carcinoma of the breast is relatively rare and, in ourseries, its incidence was 0.6%. According to its immunohistochemicalcharacteristics, MpBC can be interpreted as a subgroup of triplenegative breastcancers (TNBC). Five of the presented patients resembled the subgroup of TNBCwith a basaloid phenotype. The chemotherapy regimens suggested in the treatmentof MpBC are platin in the epithelial subgroup and high-dose anthracycline in the mesenchymal subgroup. There is a need of new studies that evaluate differentchoices of treatment as MpBC has a bad prognosis and an aggressive nature.DOI: 10.17219/acem/68293 PMID: 29558027 