189. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2018 Jun;44(6):1233-1243. doi:10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.01.020. Epub 2018 Mar 16.Blocking the Glycolytic Pathway Sensitizes Breast Cancer to Sonodynamic Therapy.Xie L(1), Feng X(1), Shi Y(1), He M(1), Wang P(1), Wang X(1), Mi Z(1), Liu Q(1), Zhang K(2).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Medicinal Resources and Natural Pharmaceutical Chemistry,Ministry of Education, National Engineering Laboratory for Resource Developing ofEndangered Chinese Crude Drugs in Northwest of China, College of Life Sciences,Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.(2)Key Laboratory of Medicinal Resources and Natural Pharmaceutical Chemistry,Ministry of Education, National Engineering Laboratory for Resource Developing ofEndangered Chinese Crude Drugs in Northwest of China, College of Life Sciences,Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China. Electronic address:zkxian@snnu.edu.cn.Inhibition of the increased aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells is a promisingmethodology for various malignant tumor therapies but is limited by systemictoxicity, at least in part. Recent studies suggest that dual restriction ofglycolysis and mitochondrial function may overcome this issue. Sonodynamictherapy (SDT), a prospective therapeutic modality for cancers, has been reported to induce mitochondria-dependent cell damage. Here, we investigated the combined effect of SDT and 2-deoxyglucose (2DG), an anti-glycolytic agent, on breastcancer both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, we found that, compared with a singletreatment, SDT + 2DG co-treatment significantly decreased cell viability andincreased cell apoptosis. Moreover, the generation of reactive oxygen species wasenhanced and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) was reduced after SDT + 2DGco-treatment. Furthermore, the oxidative phosphorylation was also restrainedafter SDT + 2DG co-treatment, further to cause the blockage of ATP provision. In vivo, SDT + 2DG markedly reduced tumor volume and weight, consistent with the in vitro findings. Furthermore, toxicology tests concurrently indicated that thedosages of sinoporphyrin sodium and 2DG were comparatively tolerable. Generally, these results indicated that SDT + 2DG combination therapy may be an available,promising therapy for highly metastatic breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 World Federation for Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology.Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.01.020 PMID: 29555321 