87. JACC Cardiovasc Imaging. 2018 Aug;11(8):1059-1068. doi:10.1016/j.jcmg.2018.01.015. Epub 2018 Mar 14.Abnormalities in 3-Dimensional Left Ventricular Mechanics With AnthracyclineChemotherapy Are Associated With Systolic and Diastolic Dysfunction.Zhang KW(1), Finkelman BS(2), Gulati G(3), Narayan HK(4), Upshaw J(3), NarayanV(5), Plappert T(6), Englefield V(6), Smith AM(6), Zhang C(6), Hundley WG(7), Ky B(8).Author information: (1)Division of Cardiology, Barnes-Jewish Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri.(2)Department of Pathology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University,Chicago, Illinois.(3)Division of Cardiology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.(4)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Cardiology, Rady Children's Hospital SanDiego, The University of California-San Diego, San Diego, California.(5)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Hospital of the University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.(6)Penn Cardiovascular Institute, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.(7)Division of Cardiology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NorthCarolina.(8)Penn Cardiovascular Institute, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Center for Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Universityof Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Electronicaddress: bonnie.ky@uphs.upenn.edu.OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to evaluate the changes inthree-dimensional (3D) speckle-tracking echocardiography-derived measures ofmechanics and their associations with systolic and diastolic dysfunction afteranthracyclines.BACKGROUND: An improved understanding of the changes in 3D cardiac mechanics withanthracyclines may provide important mechanistic insight and identify new metricsto detect cardiac dysfunction.METHODS: A total of 142 women with breast cancer receiving doxorubicin (240mg/m2) with or without trastuzumab underwent 3D speckle-tracking echocardiographyat standardized intervals prior to, during, and annually after chemotherapy. Leftventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), global circumferential strain (GCS), globallongitudinal strain (GLS), principal strain, twist, and torsion were quantified. Linear regression analyses defined the associations between clinical factors and 3D parameters. Linear regression models with cluster robust variance estimatorsdetermined the associations between 3D measures and 2-dimensional (2D) LVEF andDoppler-derived E/e' over time.RESULTS: There were significant abnormalities in 3D LVEF, GCS, GLS, and principalstrain post-doxorubicin compared with control subjects (p < 0.001). The 3Dparameters worsened post-anthracyclines, and only partially recovered to baselineover a median of 2.1 years (interquartile range: 1 to 4 years). Higher bloodpressure and body mass index were associated with worse post-anthracycline 3D GCSand GLS, respectively. All 3D measures were associated with 2D LVEF at the samevisit; only 3D LVEF, GCS, GLS, and principal strain were associated with 2D LVEF at subsequent visits (p < 0.05). In exploratory analyses, 3D LVEF and GCS wereassociated with subsequent systolic function independent of their corresponding2D measures. The 3D LVEF, GCS, principal strain, and twist were significantlyassociated with concurrent, but not subsequent, E/e'.CONCLUSIONS: Anthracyclines result in early and persistent abnormalities in 3Dmechanics. The 3D LVEF and strain measures are associated with concurrent andsubsequent systolic dysfunction, and concurrent diastolic dysfunction. Futureresearch is needed to define the mechanisms and clinical relevance of abnormal 3Dmechanics.Copyright © 2018 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by ElsevierInc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jcmg.2018.01.015 PMID: 29550306 