195. Digital Breast Tomosynthesis with Hologic 3D Mammography Selenia DimensionsSystem for Use in Breast Cancer Screening: A Single Technology Assessment[Internet].Movik E, Dalsbø TK, Fagelund BC, Friberg EG, Håheim LL, Skår Å.Oslo, Norway: Knowledge Centre for the Health Services at The Norwegian Instituteof Public Health (NIPH); 2017 Sep. Report from the Norwegian Institute of Public Health No. 2017-08.NIPH Systematic Reviews.Background In Norway, breast cancer screening is offered through a publiclyfunded program to women in the age group 50-69 on a biennial basis. Breast cancerincidence is relatively higher among women in this age group than it is amongyounger women. The purpose of the screening program is to reduce breastcancer-related mortality by detecting tumors at an earlier stage. The screeningtechnology in current use, known as digital mammography (DM), involves capturing two two-dimensional images of each breast from different angles. One of thelimitations of this technology is that tumors may be “masked”, and difficult todetect, especially in dense breasts. Digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) may, whenemployed in combination with DM, alleviate this problem by providing a 3D modelof the breast constructed on the basis of a series of 2D images. The technologyalso involves an option to construct “synthetic” 2D images (S2D) similar to astandard digital mammogram. The combined systems have the potential to increasedetection rates while reducing the need for patient recall to confirm or rule outthe presence of a tumor. However, this means that additional tumors could bedetected which do not require treatment during the patient’s lifetime, thusincreasing the rate of overdiagnosis. Mammography screening involves radiationexposure, a factor which has to be taken into account when new screeningtechnologies are evaluated. “Bestillerforum” requested the National Institute of Public Health to perform a single technology assessment (STA) regarding “Threedimensional digital breast tomosynthesis in screening for breast cancer”(ID2015_041) on January 25, 2016. An STA focuses on a clinical effectiveness and safety assessment along with a cost-effectiveness analysis of thissingle-technology (device). Objective The objective of this single technologyassessment (STA) is to assess the efficacy, safety, and cost-effectiveness ofdigital breast tomosynthesis in breast cancer screening in Norway. There areseveral manufacturers of DBT systems, but only Hologic Inc., has to date (June2017) submitted a documentation pack. We have performed a single technologyassessment of the use of Hologic Selenia Dimensions digital mammography systemfor breast cancer screening, based on the submission from Hologic Inc. We do not cover the use of the system in the diagnosis of breast cancer in clinicalpractice by this STA. Evaluation of the documentation Clinical effectiveness The documentation submitted by the company consisted of 12 studies identified by asystematic literature search. Four publications met our inclusion criteria andare included for assessment in this STA. We have assessed the presentdocumentation using a pre-defined PICOS (Population, Intervention, Comparator,Outcomes and Study design), risk of bias assessment of data provided by thesubmission file, data extraction, and graded the certainty of the evidence forthe estimates using the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) assessment. We have also reviewed the cost-effectiveness analysisand budget impact analysis described in the submission. Radiation dose and riskassessment The submitter provided no documentation assessing the risk associated with the radiation dose with DBT. Therefore, we conducted a separate assessmentof the potential risks associated with radiation exposure with DBT.Cost-effectiveness Hologic submitted a health economic analysis based on anAmerican discrete event analysis model, from which they had drawn results interms of quality-adjusted life years gained. Hologic compared the effects ofDBT+DM (synthetic 2D) for a hypothetical cohort of women that was followedthrough 10 rounds of screening over a 20-year time horizon. The model was basedon data (sensitivity and specificity) from an interim analysis of the OsloTomosynthesis Screening Trial. Hologic did not have access to the model, andcarried out the costing calculations separately. The main cost components werescreening costs and breast cancer treatment costs broken down by disease stage.Costs were applied to the model results and varied in a number of one-waysensitivity analyses. Results Clinical effectiveness Our main findings are asfollows:We are uncertain whether Hologic digital breast tomosynthesis incombination with digital mammography or synthesized digital mammography decreasesor increases recall rates compared to digital mammography alone (very lowconfidence due to conflicting evidence from observational studies). Theintervention may increase the rate of screening-detected cancer (cancer detectionrate (CDR) according to all studies (very low confidence due to sparse evidencefrom one observational study). We are uncertain whether Hologic digital breasttomosynthesis in combination with digital mammography or synthezised digitalmammography makes any difference with regard to the detection of interval cancer compared to digital mammography alone (very low confidence in the evidence due tosparse evidence from one observational study). We are uncertain whether Hologicdigital breast tomosynthesis in combination with digital mammography orsynthezised digital mammography decreases or increases false positive ratescompared to digital mammography alone (very low confidence due to conflictingevidence from observational studies). The intervention may provide similarsensitivity rates, but may increase specificity rates (low confidence due toevidence from observational studies). We are uncertain whether Hologic digitalbreast tomosynthesis in combination with digital mammography or synthesizeddigital mammography decreases or increases false negative rates compared todigital mammography alone (very low confidence due to sparse evidence from oneobservational study). Information on death and quality of life was not reported. Uncertainty regarding the effect estimates means that new research may alter the results and our conclusion. Radiation dose and risk assessment When compared tothe current practice with DM, introducing the Hologic Selenia DimensionsDBT-system into the Norwegian Breast Cancer Screening Programme (NBCSP) willresult in an increased radiation dose followed by an increased risk ofradiation-induced cancer for all the evaluated interventions defined by the PICO.Summary of findings based on doses reported in the OTST and STORM-2 trial:DBTonly: The dose and risk will increase by 23% to 38%, resulting in a totalabsorbed dose to granular tissue (AGD) of 3.7-3.9 mGy and an estimated incidence of radiation-induced breast cancer of 15 to 16 per 100,000 women and mortality of1.2 per 100,000 women. DBT + DM: The dose and risk will increase by a factor ofbetween 2.23 and 2.37, resulting in a total AGD of 6.4-7.0 mGy and an estimatedincidence of radiation-induced breast cancer of 26 to 29 per 100,000 women andmortality of 2.1 to 2.3 per 100,000 women. DBT + S2D: The dose and risk will beincreased by 23% to 38%, but reduced by 42% t0 45% compared to DBT + DM,resulting in the same dose and risk as DBT alone. The estimated values forincidence of radiation-induced breast cancer and mortality must be interpretedwith caution as there is a high level of uncertainty associated with them.However, the ratio between doses and risks for the different interventionsprovides valid input to the total risk-benefit evaluation to be done for thescreening program. Cost-effectiveness The base case results of the submittedeconomic analysis of DBT+DM (S2D) vs. DM alone were 0.007 quality adjusted lifeyears gained per woman screened. The incremental cost per QALY gained wasapproximately NOK 144,000. This result is estimated for a population of womenwith dense breasts. Hologic based the budget impact analysis on three components:relative costs of equipment procurement, screening costs, and breast cancertreatment costs. The base case estimate was a net increase in expenditure of 77.5million NOK in year 5 after implementation. Hologic also included sensitivityanalysis in the budget impact analysis to determine the effect of varying theprice, which has yet to be determined, of the DBT equipment, and to examine howchanges in important assumptions would influence the results of the budget impactanalysis. The net increase in expenditure reported varied significantly in thesensitivity analyses. Discussion Clinical efficacy and safety Compared to digitalmammography alone, the use of Hologic digital breast tomosynthesis in combinationwith standard digital mammography or synthesized digital mammography may increasethe rate of screening-detected cancer (cancer detection rate or CDR) according toall studies. The studies have provided evidence on the first screening roundusing DM+DBT, which could partly account for the substantial increased cancerdetection rate, compared with standard screening with DM alone. Estimates ofcancer detection rates for repeated DBT screening of the same populations areneeded to quantify the effect of adjunct DBT on both cancer detection and falsepositive recalls at repeated screening rounds. RCTs assessing the impact ofadjunct DBT on interval cancer rates as a surrogate for screening benefit wouldprovide critical evidence to underpin future population screening policy andpractice. RCTs should be designed to simultaneously address additional evidencegaps such as DBT’s incremental cost-effectiveness, and detection measures atrepeat screening with adjunct DBT. Using both DBT and standard DM (dualacquisition) causes an increase in the radiation dose. DBT-systems with thepossibility to generate synthetic 2D images is highly favourable compared to DBT in combination with full field digital mammography, due to its reduction in dose and associated risk. Information on radiation doses should be included in future clinical trials. Cost-effectiveness The results from the submitter’s healtheconomic analysis indicated that adjunct DBT compared to current screeningpractice could lead to earlier detection of breast cancer and a lower recallrate, though potential cost reductions resulting from the latter are not actuallymodelled. The results suggest therefore that adjunct DBT could be cost-effective if adopted by the Norwegian Breast Cancer Screening Programme. However, there area number of issues that contribute to uncertainty regarding the results. First,the uncertainty described above with regard to the clinical effectiveness,particularly with regard to sensitivity, over repeated screening visits andacross different populations (e.g. with respect to breast density). Second, we donot know to what extent the potential increase in breast cancer detection maylead to increased overdiagnosis and unnecessary treatment. Third, since acoherent, adapted health economic model could not be supplied, it is difficult toascertain the impact of various assumptions in the analysis and assess the total uncertainty regarding the health economic results. Conclusion There is too littleevidence to conclude regarding the effects of the use of Hologic digital breasttomosynthesis in combination with digital mammography or synthesized digitalmammography compared to digital mammography alone for the outcomes assessed inour report (recall rates, cancer detection rate, interval cancer rate, falsepositive and false negative rate, sensitivity, specificity, mortality and qualityof life). Preparation of a full health technology assessment should be consideredwhen sufficient evidence is available.PMID: 29553669 