80. J Physiol Pharmacol. 2017 Dec;68(6):867-875.Nocturnal resveratrol administration inhibits chemically induced breast cancerformation in rats.Kiskova T(1), Demeckova V(2), Jendzelovska Z(2), Kiktava M(2), Venglovska K(2),Bohmdorfer M(3), Jager W(3), Thalhammer T(4).Author information: (1)Faculty of Science, Institute of Biology and Ecology, University of PavolJozef Safarik in Kosice, Kosice, Slovakia. terezia.kiskova@gmail.com.(2)Faculty of Science, Institute of Biology and Ecology, University of PavolJozef Safarik in Kosice, Kosice, Slovakia.(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Diagnostics, University of Vienna, Vienna,Austria.(4)Department of Pathophysiology and Allergy Research, Center forPathophysiology, Infectiology and Immunology, Medical University of Vienna,Vienna, Austria.Resveratrol (RES) is well known natural polyphenol with proven antioxidant,antiinflammatory and anticarcinogenic properties. Since mode of application maybe important for cancer-preventive effects of RES, the aim of this study was toevaluate a possible delay in the initiation and progression of chemically inducedmammary carcinogenesis in female Sprague-Dawley rats after the nocturnaladministration of RES. Application of a high dose of RES (100 mg/kg body weight),starting 2 weeks before the first N-methyl-N-nitrosourea dose (NMU) (50 mg/kgbody weight), reduced tumor incidence and markedly prolonged latency period (P < 0.01) in the NMU + RES group in comparison to NMU tumor bearing animals. Inaddition, the tumor volume decreased significantly (P < 0.05) together with tumorfrequency (P < 0.05). We also observed that food but not water intake wassignificantly reduced by 17% between weeks 4 and 12 in the NMU + RES groupleading to a pronounced reduction in the body mass of about 25% as compared tountreated controls. In addition to direct effects of RES in tumor tissues, thispolyphenol did also improve metabolic functions in RES-treated animals since itnormalizes hypoproteinemia and urea levels and increases the number oflymphocytes when compared with NMU. Higher level of reactive oxygen species (ROS)in leukocytes and the elevation of proinflammatory plasma cytokines IL-1 and IL-2may contribute to the observed reduction in tumor development. These resultsindicate for the first time that nocturnal administration of a high dose of RESsignificantly affects tumor development in vivo. Therefore, we conclude that RES is a promising candidate for cancer chemoprevention. However, it should be noted that the mode of application might significantly affect RES ability to fightcancer.PMID: 29550799 