97. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Mar 6;9:190. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00190. eCollection2018.Altered Function and Expression of ABC Transporters at the Blood-Brain Barrierand Increased Brain Distribution of Phenobarbital in Acute Liver Failure Mice.Liu L(1), Miao M(1), Chen Y(1), Wang Z(1), Sun B(1), Liu X(1).Author information: (1)Center of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, School of Pharmacy, ChinaPharmaceutical University, Nanjing, China.This study investigated alterations in the function and expression ofP-glycoprotein (P-GP), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), and multidrugresistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2) at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) of acute liver failure (ALF) mice and its clinical significance. ALF mice were developedusing intraperitoneal injection of thioacetamide. P-GP, BCRP, and MRP2 functions were determined by measuring the ratios of brain-to-plasma concentration ofrhodamine 123, prazosin, and dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione, respectively. The mRNA and proteins expression levels of P-GP, BCRP, and MRP2 were evaluated withquantitative real-time PCR and western blot, respectively. MDCK-MDR1 and HCMEC/D3cells were used to document the effects of the abnormally altered components inserum of ALF mice on the function and expression of P-GP. The clinicalsignificance of alteration in P-GP function and expression was investigated bydetermining the distribution of the P-GP substrate phenobarbital (60 mg/kg,intravenous administration) in the brain and loss of righting reflex (LORR)induced by the drug (100 mg/kg). The results showed that ALF significantlydownregulated the function and expression of both P-GP and BCRP, but increasedthe function and expression of MRP2 in the brain of mice. Cell study showed that increased chenodeoxycholic acid may be a reason behind the downregulated P-GPfunction and expression. Compared with control mice, ALF mice showed asignificantly higher brain concentration of phenobarbital and higherbrain-to-plasma concentration ratios. In accordance, ALF mice showed asignificantly larger duration of LORR and shorter latency time of LORR byphenobarbital, inferring the enhanced pharmacological effect of phenobarbital on the central nervous system (CNS). In conclusion, the function and expression ofP-GP and BCRP decreased, while the function and expression of MRP2 increased inthe brain of ALF mice. The attenuated function and expression of P-GP at the BBB might enhance phenobarbital distribution in the brain and increase phenobarbital efficacy on the CNS of ALF mice.DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00190 PMCID: PMC5845647PMID: 29559914 