194. Co-organization of General Practitioners with Other Primary Health Care Services:A Systematic Review [Internet].Forsetlund L, Holte HH, Ding Y, Lidal IB.Oslo, Norway: Knowledge Centre for the Health Services at The Norwegian Instituteof Public Health (NIPH); 2017 Nov. Report from the Norwegian Institute of Public Health No. 2017-25.NIPH Systematic Reviews: Executive Summaries.In this systematic review we have summarized results from 28 controlled USstudies that compared co-organized clinics with clinics where primary health careresources were not co-organized. As one of several measures to meet existingchallenges in primary care, a co-organization of general practitioners with otherprimary health service providers has been proposed by Norwegian authorities inthe Meld. St. 26 (2014–2015): “The primary health and care services of tomorrow -localized and integrated”. In this systematic review we have summarized resultsfrom 28 controlled US studies that compared co-organized clinics with clinicswhere primary health care resources were not co-organized. The evidence,therefore, consists only of studies conducted in a different context than theNorwegian context. Based on this evidence we have drawn the followingconclusions:For the use of health services, it is uncertain whether aco-ordination effort will lead to more, fewer or the same number of visits to an emergency department service or specialist health care service. Forhospitalizations, there is possibly little or no difference. For follow-up ofpatients with diabetes or heart disease respectively measured as the proportionof patients having their HbA1c or lipid values measured, there is possibly littleor no difference. For preventive work, measured as the proportion of patientsbeing screened for cervical cancer, colorectal cancer or chlamydia, there ispossibly little or no difference. On the other hand, it is possible thatmarginally more patients in co-organized clinics will be screened for breastcancer. Co-organization of general practitioners with other primary health careservice providers can possibly lead to somewhat lower costs. For all outcomes, weconsidered the evidence to be of low quality and we therefore have limitedconfidence that the estimates are close to the true value. More studies orfurther follow-up on the interventions that were implemented in the includedstudies may change the estimates and our confidence in them.PMID: 29553685 