155. Theranostics. 2018 Feb 12;8(6):1690-1705. doi: 10.7150/thno.21575. eCollection2018.E. coli Nissle 1917-Derived Minicells for Targeted Delivery of ChemotherapeuticDrug to Hypoxic Regions for Cancer Therapy.Zhang Y(1)(2), Ji W(1), He L(1), Chen Y(1), Ding X(1), Sun Y(1), Hu S(1), YangH(1), Huang W(1), Zhang Y(1), Liu F(1), Xia L(1).Author information: (1)Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Microbial Molecular Biology, State KeyLaboratory of Developmental Biology of Freshwater Fish, College of Life Science, Hunan Normal University, Changsha 410081, P.R. China.(2)Department of Medical Imaging, Jinling Hospital, School of Medicine, NanjingUniversity, Nanjing 210002 Jiangsu, P.R. China.Purpose: Systemic administration of free chemotherapeutic drugs leads to severetoxic effects, and physiological characteristics of solid tumors restrain thedrugs from reaching the hypoxic regions. E. coli Nissle 1917 (EcN) has been knownto penetrate the barrier and proliferate in the interface between the viable and necrotic regions of tumors. This study aimed to fabricate a nanoscale minicellvia genetic engineering of EcN for targeted delivery of chemotherapeutic drugs tothe hypoxic regions of tumors for cancer therapy. Methods: A large number ofminicells were produced by knocking out the minCD gene and enhancing the minEexpression in EcN. Then, a pH (low) insertion peptide (pHLIP) was displayed onthe membrane surface through protein display technology to endow the cells withthe ability to target the acidic microenvironments of tumors. Theacidic-microenvironment targeting ability and therapeutic effect of theengineered minicells with chemotherapeutic drugs was thoroughly evaluated byusing breast cancer cells and an orthotopic model of breast tumor. Results: TheEcN-derived minicells displaying pHLIP could be directly extracted from thefermentation broth and used for delivering chemotherapeutic drugs without anyfurther modification. Targeting of doxorubicin (DOX)-loaded minicells to cancercells via pHLIP resulted in rapid internalization and drug release in acidicmedia. Importantly, the pHLIP-mosaic minicells successfully invaded the necrotic and hypoxic regions of orthotopic breast cancers where free chemotherapeuticdrugs could never get to because of vascular insufficiency and high interstitial fluid pressure. This invasion resulted in significant regression of an orthotopicbreast tumor in a mouse model, while no seriously pathogenic effects wereobserved during the animal experiments. Conclusions: This study provides a novel strategy for the fabrication of tumor-targeting carriers via genetic engineering based on biomaterials with the ability to penetrate hypoxic regions of tumors,high biocompatibility and low toxicity.DOI: 10.7150/thno.21575 PMCID: PMC5858176PMID: 29556350 