144. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 2018 Mar 20. doi: 10.1007/82_2018_86. [Epub ahead of print]Breast Organotypic Cancer Models.Carranza-Rosales P(1), Guzmán-Delgado NE(2), Carranza-Torres IE(3),Viveros-Valdez E(4), Morán-Martínez J(5).Author information: (1)Departamento de Biología Celular y Molecular, Instituto Mexicano del SeguroSocial. Centro de Investigación Biomédica del Noreste, Monterrey, Nuevo León,Mexico. carranza60@yahoo.com.mx.(2)Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad # 34, División de Investigación, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico.(3)Departamento de Biología Celular y Molecular, Instituto Mexicano del SeguroSocial. Centro de Investigación Biomédica del Noreste, Monterrey, Nuevo León,Mexico.(4)Departamento de Química Analítica, Ciudad Universitaria, Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, San Nicolás de los Garza, NuevoLeón, Mexico.(5)Departamento de Biología Celular y Ultraestructura, Universidad Autónoma deCoahuila, Facultad de Medicina. Centro de Investigación Biomédica, Torreón,Coahuila, Mexico.Breast cancer is the most common cancer type diagnosed in women, it represents a critical public health problem worldwide, with 1,671,149 estimated new cases and nearly 571,000 related deaths. Research on breast cancer has mainly beenconducted using two-dimensional (2D) cell cultures and animal models. Theusefulness of these models is reflected in the vast knowledge accumulated overthe past decades. However, considering that animal models are three-dimensional(3D) in nature, the validity of the studies using 2D cell cultures has recentlybeen questioned. Although animal models are important in cancer research, ethicalquestions arise about their use and usefulness as there is no clear predictivity of human disease outcome and they are very expensive and take too much time toobtain results. The poor performance or failure of most cancer drugs suggeststhat preclinical research on cancer has been based on an over-dependence oninadequate animal models. For these reasons, in the last few years development ofalternative models has been prioritized to study human breast cancer behavior,while maintaining a 3D microenvironment, and to reduce the number of experiments conducted in animals. One way to achieve this is using organotypic cultures,which are being more frequently explored in cancer research because they mimictissue architecture in vivo. These characteristics make organotypic cultures avaluable tool in cancer research as an alternative to replace animal models andfor predicting risk assessment in humans. This chapter describes the cultures of multicellular spheroids, organoids, 3D bioreactors, and tumor slices, which arethe most widely used organotypic models in breast cancer research.DOI: 10.1007/82_2018_86 PMID: 29556825 