Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare thatthey have no conflicts of interest.96. Front Immunol. 2018 Mar 6;9:449. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00449. eCollection 2018.Gene Profiling in Patients with Systemic Sclerosis Reveals the Presence ofOncogenic Gene Signatures.Dolcino M(1), Pelosi A(2), Fiore PF(2), Patuzzo G(1), Tinazzi E(1), Lunardi C(1),Puccetti A(2)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Medicine, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.(2)Immunology Area, Pediatric Hospital Bambino Gesù, Rome, Italy.(3)Department of Experimental Medicine - Section of Histology, University ofGenova, Genova, Italy.Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare connective tissue disease characterized bythree pathogenetic hallmarks: vasculopathy, dysregulation of the immune system,and fibrosis. A particular feature of SSc is the increased frequency of sometypes of malignancies, namely breast, lung, and hematological malignancies.Moreover, SSc may also be a paraneoplastic disease, again indicating a stronglink between cancer and scleroderma. The reason of this association is stillunknown; therefore, we aimed at investigating whether particular genetic orepigenetic factors may play a role in promoting cancer development in patientswith SSc and whether some features are shared by the two conditions. We thereforeperformed a gene expression profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells(PBMCs) derived from patients with limited and diffuse SSc, showing that thevarious classes of genes potentially linked to the pathogenesis of SSc (such asapoptosis, endothelial cell activation, extracellular matrix remodeling, immuneresponse, and inflammation) include genes that directly participate in thedevelopment of malignancies or that are involved in pathways known to beassociated with carcinogenesis. The transcriptional analysis was thencomplemented by a complex network analysis of modulated genes which furtherconfirmed the presence of signaling pathways associated with carcinogenesis.Since epigenetic mechanisms, such as microRNAs (miRNAs), are believed to play acentral role in the pathogenesis of SSc, we also evaluated whether specificcancer-related miRNAs could be deregulated in the serum of SSc patients. Wefocused our attention on miRNAs already found upregulated in SSc such asmiR-21-5p, miR-92a-3p, and on miR-155-5p, miR 126-3p and miR-16-5p known to bederegulated in malignancies associated to SSc, i.e., breast, lung, andhematological malignancies. miR-21-5p, miR-92a-3p, miR-155-5p, and miR-16-5pexpression was significantly higher in SSc sera compared to healthy controls. Ourfindings indicate the presence of modulated genes and miRNAs that can play apredisposing role in the development of malignancies in SSc and are important fora better risk stratification of patients and for the identification of a betterindividualized precision medicine strategy.DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00449 PMCID: PMC5845728PMID: 29559981 