33. J BUON. 2018 Jan-Feb;23(1):143-149.Comparison of two public sector tertiary care hospitals' management in reducingdirect medical cost burden on breast carcinoma patients in Lahore, Pakistan.Hameed Khaliq I(1), Zahid Mahmood H, Akhter N, Danish Sarfraz M, Asim K, MasoodGondal K.Author information: (1)Department of Public Health, University of Health Sciences, Lahore, Pakistan.PURPOSE: Breast cancer is one of the major causes of death incurring highestmorbidity and mortality amongst women of Pakistan. The purpose of this study was to assess and compare the role of two public sector tertiary care hospitals'management in reducing out of pocket (OOP) expenses on direct medical costs borneby breast carcinoma patients' household from diagnosis through treatment.Moreover, the study intended to explore the reasons of opting private diagnostic facilities by the said patients during the services taken from the foresaidtertiary care centers.METHODS: A purposive sample of 164 primary breast carcinoma patients wasrecruited for data collection of this cross-sectional study. Face to faceinterviews and semistructured questionnaires were adopted as method of datagathering tools. Major cost components of direct medical costs were used tocompare the financial strain on the patients' households of both targetedhospitals. In addition, information was collected regarding the reasons of optingprivate diagnostic centers for investigations. Frequency, percentages, median andinter quartile range (IQR) were calculated for the data. Non-parametric variableswere compared using the Mann-Whitney U test.RESULTS: It was observed that overall direct medical cost borne by the breastcarcinoma patients' households in Jinnah hospital (median US$1153.93 / Rs.118,589) was significantly higher than Mayo hospital (median US$427.93 /Rs.43,978), p<0.001; r=0.623. Moreover, spending on almost all of the components of direct medical cost were found smaller in case of Mayo hospital's patients ascompared to Jinnah hospital.CONCLUSION: This study indicates that OOP direct medical cost burden was foundconsiderably less in Mayo hospital as compared to Jinnah hospital. The OOPexpenditures on chemotherapy were overwhelmingly high. However, high spending on privately opted investigations procedures was the common issue of the patientsunder treatment in both hospitals.PMID: 29552774 