24. Lancet. 2018 Feb 21;391 Suppl 2:S16. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30382-9. Epub2018 Feb 21.Barriers preventing Palestinian women from having a mammogram: a qualitativestudy.Nabaa' HA(1), Shelleh N(2).Author information: (1)Primary Health Care Centers, Palestinian Minstry of Health, Salfit distrect,occupied Palestinian territory. Electronic address: hendyaabunabaa@yahoo.com.(2)Center for Engineering, Birzeit University, Birzeit, West Bank, occupiedPalestinian territory.BACKGROUND: The mammogram is considered a life-saving breast cancer screeningprocedure for women aged 40 years and older, yet uptake of mammography servicesby Palestinian women is very low. Breast cancer is the most common cancer,comprising 17% of all reported cancer cases, and the second leading cause ofdeath in women in the occupied Palestinian territory. The aim of this study wasto understand the barriers to mammography uptake through an exploratoryqualitative study in Ramallah and Salfeet.METHODS: The qualitative approach of the study consisted of 24 semi-structured,in-person interviews and seven focus-group discussions with women from different settings and backgrounds through a purposive sampling approach. The interviewsand discussions focused on women's knowledge of mammograms, reasons behind their decision to use the service or not, and whether they encouraged the service.Interviews were recorded after informed consent was received. Interviews andfocus-group discussions were then transcribed and analysed thematically.FINDINGS: Women mentioned a variety of barriers, including their psychological,social, and religious beliefs as well as disease-related, health system-related, political, and financial factors. Women expressed psychosocial issues such asshyness, fear from being diagnosed, losing femininity, losing financial andemotional support, losing independence and control of their lives, suffering painbesides low self-prioritising, being busy with children and house keeping, andhaving low knowledge of mammography. Only one woman expressed political concerns about access to screening services. Interviewees raised cultural factors, andlack of health insurance was a primary barrier to mammography for uninsured,widowed, and divorced women. More women had financial concerns with the treatmentprocess and access if they were found to have cancer. Others had concerns abouttest efficacy, safety, and importance. Participants also raised issues related tosocial stigma: many women had concerns about family norms and values with respectto a possible second marriage of their husband if they were diagnosed with canceras well as the potential negative effect of a cancer diagnosis on theirdaughters' marriage prospects.INTERPRETATION: Health-seeking behaviours by women are controversial and affecttheir decision to participate in mammography for screening or diagnoses. Giventhe sensitivity of the topic and the importance of early detection, healthpolicies need to take those behaviours and barriers into account.FUNDING: None.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(18)30382-9 PMID: 29553413 