168. Front Genet. 2018 Mar 5;9:58. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00058. eCollection 2018.Growth of Triple Negative and Progesterone Positive Breast Cancer CausesOxidative Stress and Down-Regulates Neuroprotective Transcription Factor NPAS4and NPAS4-Regulated Genes in Hippocampal Tissues of TumorGraft Mice-an AgingConnection.Kovalchuk A(1)(2), Ilnytskyy Y(3), Rodriguez-Juarez R(3), Katz A(4), SidranskyD(4)(5), Kolb B(1), Kovalchuk O(3).Author information: (1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Lethbridge, Lethbridge, AB, Canada.(2)Leaders in Medicine Program, Cumming School of Medicine, University ofCalgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.(3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Lethbridge, Lethbridge, AB,Canada.(4)Department of Oncology, Champions Oncology, Baltimore, MD, United States.(5)Department of Otolaryngology and Oncology, Johns Hopkins University,Baltimore, MD, United States.While the refinement of existing and the development of new chemotherapeuticregimens has significantly improved cancer treatment outcomes and patientsurvival, chemotherapy still causes many persistent side effects. Central nervoussystem (CNS) toxicity is of particular concern, as cancer patients experiencesignificant deficits in memory, learning, cognition, and decision-making. Thesechemotherapy-induced cognitive changes are termed chemo brain, and manifest inmore than half of cancer survivors. Moreover, recent studies have emergedsuggesting that neurocognitive deficits manifest prior to cancer diagnosis andtreatment, and thus may be associated with tumor presence, a phenomenon recently termed "tumor brain." To dissect the molecular mechanisms of tumor brain, we usedTumorGraftTM models, wherein part of a patient's tumor is grafted intoimmune-deficient mice. Here, we analyzed molecular changes in the hippocampaltissues of mice carrying triple negative (TNBC) or progesterone receptor positive(PR+BC) xenografts. TNBC growth led to increased oxidative damage, as detected byelevated levels of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, a product of lipid peroxidation.Furthermore, the growth of TNBC and PR+BC tumors altered global gene expressionin the murine hippocampus and affected multiple pathways implicated in PI3K-Aktand MAPK signaling, as well as other pathways crucial for the proper functioning of hippocampal neurons. TNBC and PR+BC tumor growth also led to a significantdecrease in the levels of neuronal transcription factor NPAS4, a regulator thatgoverns the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and severalother key brain neurotrophic factors and pro-survival molecules. The decreasedexpression of ERK1/2, NPAS4, and BDNF are also seen in neurodegenerativeconditions and aging, and may constitute an important tumor brain mechanism.DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00058 PMCID: PMC5845109PMID: 29556248 