Conflict of interest statement: SF, GR, JM, MB No competing interests declared78. Elife. 2018 Mar 21;7. pii: e26161. doi: 10.7554/eLife.26161.Transient external force induces phenotypic reversion of malignant epithelialstructures via nitric oxide signaling.Ricca BL(#)(1), Venugopalan G(#)(1), Furuta S(2), Tanner K(2)(3), OrellanaWA(2)(3), Reber CD(1), Brownfield DG(1)(2), Bissell MJ(2), Fletcher DA(1)(2).Author information: (1)Bioengineering Department and Biophysics Program, University of California,Berkeley, Berkeley, United States.(2)Biological Systems and Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley NationalLaboratory, Berkeley, United States.(3)Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, United States.(#)Contributed equallyNon-malignant breast epithelial cells cultured in three-dimensional laminin-rich extracellular matrix (lrECM) form well organized, growth-arrested acini, whereas malignant cells form continuously growing disorganized structures. While themechanical properties of the microenvironment have been shown to contribute toformation of tissue-specific architecture, how transient external forceinfluences this behavior remains largely unexplored. Here, we show that brieftransient compression applied to single malignant breast cells in lrECMstimulated them to form acinar-like structures, a phenomenon we term 'mechanical reversion.' This is analogous to previously described phenotypic 'reversion'using biochemical inhibitors of oncogenic pathways. Compression stimulated nitricoxide production by malignant cells. Inhibition of nitric oxide productionblocked mechanical reversion. Compression also restored coherent rotation inmalignant cells, a behavior that is essential for acinus formation. We proposethat external forces applied to single malignant cells restore cell-lrECMengagement and signaling lost in malignancy, allowing them to reestablishnormal-like tissue architecture.DOI: 10.7554/eLife.26161 PMCID: PMC5862525PMID: 29560858 