152. Int J Oncol. 2018 Mar 16. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2018.4321. [Epub ahead of print]Overexpression of satellite alpha transcripts leads to chromosomal instabilityvia segregation errors at specific chromosomes.Ichida K(1), Suzuki K(1), Fukui T(1), Takayama Y(1), Kakizawa N(1), WatanabeF(1), Ishikawa H(1), Muto Y(1), Kato T(1), Saito M(1), Futsuhara K(1), MiyakuraY(1), Noda H(1), Ohmori T(2), Konishi F(3), Rikiyama T(1).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Saitama Medical Center, Jichi Medical University,Saitama-shi, Saitama 330-8503, Japan.(2)Department of Biochemistry, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke-shi, Tochigi 329-0498, Japan.(3)Nerima-Hikarigaoka Hospital, Tokyo 179-0072, Japan.The impairment of the stability of the chromosomal structure facilitates theabnormal segregation of chromosomes, thus increasing the risk of carcinogenesis. Chromosomal stability during segregation is managed by appropriate methylation atthe centromere of chromosomes. Insufficient methylation, or hypomethylation,results in chromosomal instability. The centromere consists of satellite alpharepetitive sequences, which are ideal targets for DNA hypomethylation, resulting in the overexpression of satellite alpha transcript (SAT). The overexpression of SAT has been reported to induce the abnormal segregation of chromosomes. In this study, we verified the oncogenic pathway via chromosomal instability involvingDNA hypomethylation and the overexpression of SAT. For this purpose, weconstructed lentiviral vectors expressing SAT and control viruses and theninfected human mammary epithelial cells with these vectors. The copy numberalterations and segregation errors of chromosomes were evaluated bymicroarray-based comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) andimmunocytochemistry, respectively. The levels of hypomethylation of satellitealpha sequences were determined by MethyLight polymerase chain reaction. Clinicalspecimens from 45 patients with breast cancer were recruited to verify the datain vitro. The results of immunocytochemistry revealed that the incidence ofsegregation errors was significantly higher in the cells overexpressing SAT than in the controls. An array CGH identified the specific chromosomes of 8q and 20qas frequent sites of copy number alterations in cells with SAT overexpression,although no such sites were noted in the controls, which was consistent with the data from clinical specimens. A regression analysis revealed that the expression of SAT was significantly associated with the levels of hypomethylation ofsatellite alpha sequences. On the whole, the overexpression of SAT led tochromosomal instability via segregation errors at specific chromosomes inconnection with DNA hypomethylation, which was also recognized in clinicalspecimens of patients with breast cancer. Thus, this oncogenic pathway may beinvolved in the development of breast cancer.DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2018.4321 PMID: 29568894 