200. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2018 Mar;22(5):1358-1365. doi:10.26355/eurrev_201803_14479.Long non-coding RNA BANCR indicates poor prognosis for breast cancer and promotescell proliferation and invasion.Lou KX(1), Li ZH, Wang P, Liu Z, Chen Y, Wang XL, Cui HX.Author information: (1)Department of Medical Ultrasound, Xuzhou Hospital Affiliated to School ofMedicine, Southeast University, Xuzhou, China. redfields001@163.com.OBJECTIVE: We investigated the expression of human long non-coding ribonucleicacid (lncRNA), BRAF-activated non-coding RNA (BANCR) in breast cancer tissues andits effects on the in vitro proliferation, apoptosis, invasion and metastasis of breast cancer cells; also, we investigated its possible mechanism.PATIENTS AND METHODS: The expressions of BANCR in 65 pairs of breast cancertissues and para-carcinoma normal breast tissues were detected by Real-timefluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The expressions ofBANCR in normal breast epithelial cells (MCF10A) and breast cancer cells (MCF-7, MDA-MB-231, SKBR3 and BT-20) were further detected. The knockdown efficiency ofBANCR small interfering RNA (siRNA) in MCF-7 cells was detected by qRT-PCR. Theeffects of BANCR knockdown on proliferation, apoptosis, invasion and metastasiscapacities of MCF-7 cells were explored via methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium (MTT)proliferation assay, cell colony formation assay, fluorescence-activated cellsorting (FACS) and transwell migration assay. Western blotting was used to detectthe changes in expressions of apoptosis-related proteins, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-related proteins and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) afterknockdown of BANCR.RESULTS: The expression level of lncRNA BANCR in breast cancer tissues wassignificantly higher than that in para-carcinoma normal tissues. The prognosis ofpatients in low-expression BANCR group was significantly superior to that ofpatients in high-expression BANCR group. After BANCR knockdown in breast cancerMCF-7 cells, the cell proliferation and colony formation capacities weresignificantly inhibited. Further mechanism research showed that inhibiting BANCR could promote the apoptosis of MCF-7 cells. Results of Western blotting revealed that the expressions of B-cell lymphoma 2 associated X protein (BAX),cleaved-Caspase-3 and cleaved-poly adenosine diphosphate-ribose polymerase (PARP)in knockdown group were significantly up-regulated compared with those in controlgroup. Both wound-healing assay and transwell migration assay showed that thedown-regulation of lncRNA BANCR could inhibit the invasion and metastasiscapacities of MCF-7 cells, whose mechanism was related to the inhibition of EMTprocess and down-regulation of MMP expressions in cells.CONCLUSIONS: LncRNA BANCR is highly expressed in breast cancer, which issignificantly correlated with the prognosis of patients; moreover, it can promotethe growth, invasion and metastasis of ovarian cancer cells. The down-regulation of BANCR can inhibit the proliferation, invasion and metastasis capacities ofMCF-7 cells.PMID: 29565494 