Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.32. Int J Nanomedicine. 2018 Mar 6;13:1327-1339. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S150237.eCollection 2018.Development of liposomal pemetrexed for enhanced therapy against multidrugresistance mediated by ABCC5 in breast cancer.Bai F(#)(1)(2)(3), Yin Y(#)(4), Chen T(#)(1), Chen J(1), Ge M(2), Lu Y(2), XieF(5), Zhang J(1), Wu K(3), Liu Y(1)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacy, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai.(2)Department of General Surgery, Xinhua Hospital, Affiliated to Shanghai JiaoTong University, School of Medicine, Shanghai.(3)Department of Breast Surgery, Obstetrics and Gynaecology Hospital, FudanUniversity, Shanghai.(4)Department of Neurology, Changzheng Hospital Affiliated to Second MilitaryMedical University, Shanghai.(5)Department of Pharmacy, Shanghai Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Hospital,Shanghai.(6)Department of Pharmacy, Changzheng Hospital Affiliated to Second MilitaryMedical University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.(#)Contributed equallyPurpose: Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. Pemetrexed, a newgeneration antifolate drug, is one of the primary treatments for breast cancer.However, multidrug resistance (MDR) in breast cancer greatly hampers thetherapeutic efficacy of chemotherapies such as pemetrexed. Nanomedicine isemerging as a promising alternative technique to overcome cancer MDR. Thus,pemetrexed-loaded d-alpha tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (vitamin E TPGS) liposomes (liposomal pemetrexed) were developed as a strategy to overcomeMDR to pemetrexed in breast cancer.Materials and methods: Liposomal pemetrexed was developed using the calciumacetate gradient method. The cytotoxic effects, apoptosis-inducing activity, invivo distribution, and antitumor activity of liposomal pemetrexed wereinvestigated.Results: Liposomal pemetrexed was small in size (160.77 nm), with a smallpolydispersity of <0.1. The encapsulation efficacy of liposomal pemetrexed was63.5%, which is rather high for water-soluble drugs in liposomes. The IC50 ofliposomal pemetrexed following treatment with MDR breast cancer cells (MCF-7cells overexpressing ABCC5) was 2.6-fold more effective than pemetrexed. The invivo biodistribution study showed that the liposomes significantly accumulated intumors 24 h after injection. The antitumor assay in mice bearing MDR breastcancer xenograft tumors confirmed the superior antitumor activity of liposomalpemetrexed over pemetrexed. It was also found that the improved therapeuticeffect of liposomal pemetrexed may be attributed to apoptosis through bothextrinsic and intrinsic pathways.Conclusion: Liposomal pemetrexed represents a potential therapeutic approach for overcoming breast cancer MDR.DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S150237 PMCID: PMC5846754PMID: 29563790  [Indexed for MEDLINE]