139. Stem Cells. 2018 Mar 23. doi: 10.1002/stem.2819. [Epub ahead of print]In Vitro Fusion of Normal and Neoplastic Breast Epithelial Cells with HumanMesenchymal Stroma/Stem Cells Partially Involves Tumor Necrosis Factor ReceptorSignaling.Melzer C(1), von der Ohe J(1), Hass R(1).Author information: (1)Biochemistry and Tumor Biology Lab, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.Formation of hybrid cells by "accidental cell fusion" of normal and neoplasticbreast epithelial cells with local tissue-associated mesenchymal stroma/stem-likecells (MSC) in an inflammatory microenvironment can generate new cancer cellpopulations whereby molecular signaling mechanisms of this process remainunclear. Fusions of lentiviral enhanced green fluorescent protein-labeled MSCwith mcherry-labeled breast epithelial cells were quantified and effects of tumornecrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and receptor downstream signaling wereinvestigated. Cocultures of MSC with normal human mammary epithelial cells, with neoplastic MCF10A, or with MDA-MB-231 or MCF7 breast cancer cells demonstratedhybrid cell formation between 0.1% and about 2% of the populations within 72hours, whereby the fusion process occurred in less than 5 minutes. Addition ofthe pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-α significantly enhanced MCF10A-MSC cellfusion. Small-interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown experiments revealed aninvolvement of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) receptor-1 and -2 in this process.This was also substantiated by siRNA knockdown of tumor necrosis factor receptor type 1-associated death domain which abolished TNF-α-stimulated fusion. While TNFreceptor signaling can be relayed via the Mitogen-activated protein kinase 8(MAPK8), NF-κB or cell death pathways, examination of further downstreamsignaling exhibited little if any effects of MAPK8 or RelA (p65) onTNF-α-mediated cell fusion, respectively. These data suggested that cell fusionbetween MSC and MCF10A breast epithelial cells can be stimulated by TNF-αinvolving TNF receptor-activated cell death pathways or additional NF-κBsignaling. Stem Cells 2018.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1002/stem.2819 PMID: 29569804 