66. Med Sci Monit. 2018 Mar 21;24:1680-1687.Distribution and Determinants of Unmet Need for Supportive Care Among Women with Breast Cancer in China.Wang S(1), Li Y(1), Li C(2), Qiao Y(3), He S(4).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, The Affiliated Hospital of Weifang Medical College,Weifang, Shandong, China (mainland).(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, Jiangsu,China (mainland).(3)Department of Outpatient, Weifang Military Hospital of Shandong Province,Weifang, Shandong, China (mainland).(4)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, The People's Hospital of WulianCounty, Wulian, Shandong, China (mainland).BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to determine the need for supportive careamong women suffering from breast cancer in China and to identify its potentialdeterminants to inform the development of effective and efficient healthcareservices across different settings. MATERIAL AND METHODS In a tertiary-carehospital in Weifang, China, between July 2015 and January 2016, all womenattending the Breast Cancer Clinic for regular physical examinations aftertreatment for breast cancer were consecutively recruited. The 34-item Supportive Care Needs Survey tool (Chinese version) (SCNS-SF34-C) was used to assess theunmet needs among participants. RESULTS Among 264 recruited patients, based on atleast single-item endorsement, 60.2% had moderate to high level of need forsupportive care, while only 13.3% expressed no need. Lack of informationregarding health systems was the most common domain with moderate to high unmetneeds, more so among rural patients (8 vs. 5 out of 10). In eachinformation-related domain, huge unmet need was observed among all patientsirrespective of urban or rural residence. Both overall and individualinformation-related domain-specific unmet needs were significantly higher amongrural patients as opposed to their urban counterparts. Multiple regressionanalyses revealed a significant rural-urban variation of unmet needs. Moreover,education and post-diagnosis time duration were negatively associated with unmet needs while stage of cancer was positively associated with these unmet needs.CONCLUSIONS There is a huge burden of unmet needs for information on thehealthcare system among breast cancer survivors in China. Rural residence, lesseducation, advanced stage of cancer, and shorter duration since diagnosis werethe identified determinants requiring targeted intervention.PMCID: PMC5877206PMID: 29561832 