10. Recenti Prog Med. 2018 Mar;109(3):174-184. doi: 10.1701/2876.29002.[Italian Version of Chemotherapy-induced Alopecia Distress Scale (I-CADS):linguistic cultural adaptation, content validity and psychometrics assessment.][Article in Italian]Grugnetti AM(1), Arrigoni C(2), Fusco MA(1), Magon A(3), Sgarella A(1), Gallotti ML(2), Grugnetti G(1), Caruso R(3).Author information: (1)Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia.(2)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica, Medicina Sperimentale e Forense, Universitàdi Pavia.(3)Area Ricerca e Sviluppo delle Professioni Sanitarie, IRCCS Policlinico SanDonato, San Donato Milanese.Distress could be often experienced by breast cancer patients withchemotherapy-induced alopecia. Those distress assessment is strategic to deliver care in a tailored way, enhancing the overall wellbeing. So far, those distressis measurable by the Chemotherapy-induced Alopecia Distress Scale (CADS), whichis not yet available in Italian, due to there are no validation studies on thistopic. For this reason, the aim of this study was to validate and adaptChemotherapy-induced Alopecia Distress Scale within the Italian context (I-CADS).Specifically, the following validations were assessed: cultural-linguistic,qualitative and quantitative content validity, psychometrics and internalconsistency (reliability) assessments. To answer to the specific aims, the study design was multiphase: 1) firstly, authors provided a linguistic and culturalvalidation; 2) then a panel of expert (n=16) was involved to assess qualitativeand quantitative content validity, using CVR, I-CVIs, S-CVI; finally 3) across-sectional sampling was used to establish the psychometric proprieties andthe internal consistency. In the third phase the data were analyzed throughdifferent exploratory factorial analysis models, using Maximum Likelihood Robust estimator and Geomin factor rotation. I-CADS has 16 items, measuring threedomains, which are self-perception, emotivism and social engaging. The itemsinternal consistency (α Cronbach was always major of 0.93) within their domainshows a good reliability. I-CADS could be routinely used to support clinicaldecision-making, due to it is useful to intercept distress related to lowself-perception, emotivism and social engaging. Moreover, I-CAD clearpsychometric structure could facilitate its usefulness in those researches where it is needed to measure distress amongst breast cancer patients withchemotherapy-induced alopecia.DOI: 10.1701/2876.29002 PMID: 29565051 