Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.30. Eplasty. 2018 Feb 26;18:e13. eCollection 2018.Postmastectomy Breast Reconstruction With the Totally Autologous Latissimus DorsiFlap in the Thin, Small-Breasted Woman: Give It More Thought!Kazzazi F(1), Ching RC(2), Malata CM(2)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Clinical School of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UnitedKingdom.(2)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Cambridge UniversityHospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United Kingdom.(3)Cambridge Breast Unit, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge.(4)Anglia Ruskin University School of Medicine, Cambridge and Chelmsford, United Kingdom.Introduction: Thin women have fewer autologous tissue breast reconstructiveoptions than their higher body mass index counterparts-due to a lack of adequate donor sites. They are therefore usually offered expander/implant techniques. The total autologous latissimus dorsi flap is generally used in "well-padded"individuals, as they have enough fat on their back on which a completelyautologous reconstruction could be based. When implant-based reconstruction iscontraindicated (for instance due to planned adjuvant radiotherapy) orunacceptable to the patient, the total autologous latissimus dorsi flap canprovide adequate tissue volume by utilizing the additional back fat deposits evenin the thin, small-breasted patient. This option is often overlooked by manysurgeons. Our case series assesses indications and patient and surgeonsatisfaction with the cosmetic outcome of this technique. Methods: Theoncological and clinical details of 6 patients with breast cancer who underwenttotal autologous latissimus dorsi myocutaneous flap immediate breastreconstruction by a single surgeon over an 8-year period were reviewed. Anobjective assessment of satisfaction with the cosmetic result was made by whetherany additional surgical interventions (ipsilateral fat grafting/implantaugmentation or contralateral liposuction/ reduction) were needed or not. Asubjective assessment of breast symmetry by the surgeon using photographicrecords was also undertaken. The aesthetic outcomes were also objectivelyquantified using the BCCT.core software, initially developed for assessing theresults of breast conservation surgery. Results: All 6 patients had small breastsand a low or normal body mass index. The mastectomies were performed for invasivecarcinoma (n = 3) and extensive high-grade ductal carcinoma in situ (n = 3). Fourhad axillary surgery (2 sentinel lymph node biopsies and 2 axillary clearances), and 3 received adjuvant radiotherapy. All were happy with their reconstructiveoutcomes, and none suffered major postoperative complications or diseaserecurrence. None requested or needed any subsequent ipsilateral adjustment orcontralateral symmetrizing procedures. Subjectively, the reconstructions providedacceptable or excellent cosmetic results. The cosmetic results were categorizedas excellent or good on the BCCT.core scoring system. Conclusion: Thisunderutilized method of totally autologous breast reconstruction in thinnerpatients with lower body mass indexes yielded good, well-accepted cosmeticresults without recourse to adjustment procedures, contralateral balancingsurgery, or complex microvascular surgery. We recommend that the total autologouslatissimus dorsi flap should be given more consideration when planning immediate breast reconstruction in this challenging group of thin, small-breasted patients.PMCID: PMC5838613PMID: 29564032 