184. Breast Cancer Res. 2018 Mar 22;20(1):20. doi: 10.1186/s13058-018-0952-8.Murine breast cancer feed arteries are thin-walled with reduced α1A-adrenoceptor expression and attenuated sympathetic vasocontraction.Froelunde AS(1), Ohlenbusch M(1), Hansen KB(1), Jessen N(1), Kim S(1), Boedtkjer E(2).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, Ole Worms Allé 3, building 1170,DK-8000, Aarhus C, Denmark.(2)Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, Ole Worms Allé 3, building 1170,DK-8000, Aarhus C, Denmark. eb@biomed.au.dk.BACKGROUND: Perfusion of breast cancer tissue limits oxygen availability andmetabolism but angiogenesis inhibitors have hitherto been unsuccessful for breastcancer therapy. In order to identify abnormalities and possible therapeutictargets in mature cancer arteries, we here characterize the structure andfunction of cancer feed arteries and corresponding control arteries from femaleFVB/N mice with ErbB2-induced breast cancer.METHODS: We investigated the contractile function of breast cancer feed arteries and matched control arteries by isometric myography and evaluated membranepotentials and intracellular [Ca2+] using sharp electrodes and fluorescencemicroscopy, respectively. Arterial wall structure is assessed by transmissionlight microscopy of arteries mounted in wire myographs and by evaluation ofhistological sections using the unbiased stereological disector technique. Wedetermined the expression of messenger RNA by reverse transcription andquantitative polymerase chain reaction and studied receptor expression byconfocal microscopy of arteries labelled with the BODIPY-tagged α1-adrenoceptorantagonist prazosin.RESULTS: Breast cancer feed arteries are thin-walled and produce lower tensionthan control arteries of similar diameter in response to norepinephrine,thromboxane-analog U46619, endothelin-1, and depolarization with elevated [K+].Fewer layers of similarly-sized vascular smooth muscle cells explain the reduced media thickness of breast cancer arteries. Evidenced by lower media stress,norepinephrine-induced and thromboxane-induced tension development of breastcancer arteries is reduced more than is explained by the thinner media.Conversely, media stress during stimulation with endothelin-1 and elevated [K+]is similar between breast cancer and control arteries. Correspondingly, vascular smooth muscle cell depolarizations and intracellular Ca2+ responses areattenuated in breast cancer feed arteries during norepinephrine but not duringendothelin-1 stimulation. Protein expression of α1-adrenoceptors and messengerRNA levels for α1A-adrenoceptors are lower in breast cancer arteries than controlarteries. Sympathetic vasocontraction elicited by electrical field stimulation isinhibited by α1-adrenoceptor blockade and reduced in breast cancer feed arteries compared to control arteries.CONCLUSION: Thinner media and lower α1-adrenoceptor expression weakencontractions of breast cancer feed arteries in response to sympathetic activity. We propose that abnormalities in breast cancer arteries can be exploited tomodify tumor perfusion and thereby either starve cancer cells or facilitate drug and oxygen delivery during chemotherapy or radiotherapy.DOI: 10.1186/s13058-018-0952-8 PMCID: PMC5863844PMID: 29566737 