Conflict of interest statement: In the last 24 months D.L.R. has been aconsultant to Astra Zeneca, Agendia, Bethyl Labs, Biocept, BMS, Cell SignalingTechnology, Cepheid, ClearSight, Genoptix/Novartis, Merck, OptraScan, PerkinElmer, and Ultivue. D.L.R. has received grant funding from Cepheid, Genoptix,Gilead Sciences, Pierre Fabre, Perkin Elmer and Nantomics. None of theseinteractions are related to this work. The remaining authors declare no competinginterests.90. Cureus. 2018 Jan 17;10(1):e2081. doi: 10.7759/cureus.2081.Basal Cell Carcinoma with Myoepithelial Differentiation: Case Report andLiterature Review.Cohen PR(1).Author information: (1)Department of Dermatology, University of California, San Diego.Basal cell carcinoma is the most common skin cancer. Myoepithelial cells arespecialized epithelial cells. Basal cell carcinoma with myoepithelialdifferentiation is a rare tumor. A 71-year-old man with a basal cell carcinomawith myoepithelial differentiation that presented as an asymptomatic red papuleof two months duration on his forehead is described. Including the reportedpatient, this variant of basal cell carcinoma has been described in 16 patients: 11 men and five women. The patients ranged in age at diagnosis from 43 years to83 years; the median age at diagnosis was 66 years. All of the tumors werelocated on the face-most were papules or nodules of less than 10 x 10 mm. Theirpathology demonstrated two components: one was that of a typical basal cellcarcinoma and the other was myoepithelioma-like in which the tumor cells wereplasmacytoid or signet ring in appearance and contained abundant eosinophiliccytoplasm or hyaline inclusions or both. The myoepithelial tumor cells hadvariable immunohistochemical expression that included not only cytokeratin butalso actin, glial fibrillary acid protein, S100, and vimentin. The most commonclinical impression, prior to biopsy, was a basal cell carcinoma. The pathologic differential diagnosis included cutaneous mixed sweat gland tumor of the skin,myoepithelioma, myoepithelial carcinoma, and tumors that contain a prominentsignet ring cell component (such as metastatic gastrointestinal and breastcarcinoma, melanoma, plasmacytoid squamous cell carcinoma, and T-cell lymphoma). Mohs micrographic surgical excision, with complete removal of the tumor, wasrecommended for treatment of the carcinoma.DOI: 10.7759/cureus.2081 PMCID: PMC5856425PMID: 29560294 