120. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Feb;98:793-800. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2017.12.111. Epub2018 Jan 5.Anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor effects of α-l-guluronic acid (G2013) oncancer-related inflammation in a murine breast cancer model.Hosseini F(1), Mahdian-Shakib A(2), Jadidi-Niaragh F(3), Enderami SE(4),Mohammadi H(3), Hemmatzadeh M(3), Mohammed HA(5), Anissian A(6), Kokhaei P(1),Mirshafiey A(7), Hassannia H(8).Author information: (1)Cancer Research Center and Department of Immunology, Semnan University ofMedical Sciences, Semnan, Iran.(2)Department of Immunology, School of Public Health, Tehran University ofMedical Sciences, Tehran, Iran; Students' ScientificResearch Center, TehranUniversity of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(3)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz,Iran; Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of MedicalSciences, Tabriz, Iran.(4)Department of Molecular Medicine, Zanjan University of Medical Sciences,Zanjan, Iran.(5)Department of Immunology, School of Public Health, Tehran University ofMedical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(6)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Islamic Azad University, Abhar Branch,Abhar, Iran.(7)Department of Immunology, School of Public Health, Tehran University ofMedical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: mirshafiey@tums.ac.ir.(8)Department of Immunology, School of Public Health, Tehran University ofMedical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: hadi3977@yahoo.com.Cancer-related inflammation (CRI) is associated with the malignant progression ofseveral cancer types. Targeting these pathways is a novel promising strategy for cancer prevention and treatment. In this present study, we evaluated the efficacyof ?-l-guluronic acid (ALG), a potent anti-inflammatory agent on breastcancer-related inflammation both in vitro and in vivo conditions. Our resultsindicated that ALG can effectively inhibit the CRI and tumor-promoting mediators (COX-2, MMP2, MMP9, VEGF and proinflammatory cytokines) without direct toxiceffects on the cells. Moreover, it was found that, ALG can effectively inhibitthe tumor cell adhesion to extracellular matrix, seeding in implantation tissue, reduce accumulation of immunosuppressive and inflammatory cells in tumor-bearing mice. These findings were associated with decreased tumor growth, metastasis,angiogenesis and prolonged mice survival. In conclusion, our data provide acellular and molecular justification for the use of nonsteroidalanti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in treating cancer and imply the potentialanti-tumor activity of ALG therapy via inhibition of CRI. These findings couldlead to the establishment of novel NSAID-based cancer therapy in the near future and open a new horizon for cancer treatment.Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2017.12.111 PMID: 29571248 