68. Support Care Cancer. 2018 Sep;26(9):3117-3126. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4163-8.Epub 2018 Mar 24.A qualitative analysis of oncology clinicians' perceptions and barriers forphysical activity counseling in breast cancer survivors.Fong AJ(1)(2), Faulkner G(3), Jones JM(4), Sabiston CM(5).Author information: (1)Faculty of Kinesiology and Physical Education, University of Toronto, 55Harbord Street, Toronto, ON, M5S 2W6, Canada.(2)School of Kinesiology and Health Studies, Queen's University, Kingston, ON,Canada.(3)School of Kinesiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.(4)Cancer Rehabilitation and Survivorship Program, Princess Margaret CancerCentre, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada.(5)Faculty of Kinesiology and Physical Education, University of Toronto, 55Harbord Street, Toronto, ON, M5S 2W6, Canada. catherine.sabiston@utoronto.ca.BACKGROUND: Few breast cancer survivors (BCS) engage in sufficient physicalactivity (PA) to gain physical and mental health benefits. This may be due to alack of appropriate PA information and support. While key messengers of PAinformation could be oncology clinicians, many do not consistently counsel their patients on PA.PURPOSE: To examine factors affecting PA counseling in clinicians and informfuture strategies.METHODS: Focus groups were conducted with clinicians (N = 27) at four cancerhospitals to better understand factors that affect PA counseling. Focus groupdiscussions were transcribed verbatim and analyzed using inductive thematicanalysis.RESULTS: Clinicians perceived a lack of training and knowledge related to PA and BCS. Clinicians also discussed being unsure of when to integrate PA counselinginto different phases of survivorship. Similarly, clinicians experienced barriersfrom hospital administration to maintain patient flow in-clinic, which decreased opportunities for PA counseling. Additionally, lack of awareness ofcommunity-based programs within large areas served by hospitals also decreasedclinicians' self-efficacy for counseling. In order to facilitate PA counseling,clinicians wanted resources that promote patient-managed PA, available onmultiple platforms (e.g., printed and online). Continued education, highlighting recent research and effective implementation of PA, was noted as an importantfacilitator.CONCLUSIONS: Researchers are encouraged to develop research agendas and testeducational strategies that are integrated into current practice, empiricallytest barriers that developed from this study with a larger, representative sampleto determine salient barriers and develop PA counseling strategies that areclinician-initiated but not dependent on clinicians.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4163-8 PMID: 29574619 