70. BMJ Open. 2018 Mar 23;8(3):e019078. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019078.Randomised controlled trial of exercise to prevent shoulder problems in womenundergoing breast cancer treatment: study protocol for the prevention of shoulderproblems trial (UK PROSPER).Bruce J(1), Williamson E(2), Lait C(3), Richmond H(1), Betteley L(1), Lall R(1), Petrou S(1), Rees S(1), Withers EJ(1), Lamb SE(1)(2), Thompson AM(4)(5); PROSPER Study Group.Collaborators: Bruce J, Lamb SE, Williamson E, Lall R, Petrou S, Thompson AM,Williams J, Harkin C, Withers EJ, Betteley L, Turner C, Chowdhury L, Hennings S, Higgins H, Richmond H, Lait C, Rees S, Mazuquin B, Mistry P, Canaway A, Harkin C,Laar MV, Ankcorn L, Tomlins A, Vidya R, Roy PG, Mcevoy K, Soulsby R, Lait C,Williamson E, Srikesavan C, Moser J, Newman M, Rees S, Betteley L, Richmond H,Fordham B, Lamb SE, Bruce J, Willis A, Adjei H, Daffern C.Author information: (1)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, University ofWarwick, Coventry, UK.(2)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences,University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Oxford, UK.(3)Gloucestershire Care Services NHS Trust, Gloucester, UK.(4)Department of Breast Surgical Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, Texas, USA.(5)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, University of Texas MDAnderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.Musculoskeletal shoulder problems are common after breast cancer treatment. Earlypostoperative exercises targeting the upper limb may improve shoulder function.This protocol describes a National Institute for Health Research-fundedrandomised controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the clinical and cost-effectivenessof an early supervised structured exercise programme compared with usual care,for women at high risk of developing shoulder problems after breast cancersurgery.METHODS: This pragmatic two-armed, multicentre RCT is underway withinsecondary care in the UK. PRevention Of Shoulder ProblEms tRial (PROSPER) aims torecruit 350 women from approximately 15 UK centres with follow-up at 6 weeks, 6and 12 months after randomisation. Recruitment processes and interventiondevelopment were optimised through qualitative research during a 6-month internalpilot phase. Participants are randomised to the PROSPER intervention or bestpractice usual care only. The PROSPER intervention is delivered byphysiotherapists and incorporates three main components: shoulder-specificexercises targeting range of movement and strength; general physical activity andbehavioural strategies to encourage adherence and support exercise behaviour. Theprimary outcome is upper arm function assessed using the Disabilities of the Arm,Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire at 12 months postrandomisation. Secondary outcomes include DASH subscales, acute and chronic pain, complications,health-related quality of life and healthcare resource use. We will interview asubsample of 20 participants to explore their experiences of the trialinterventions.DISCUSSION: The PROSPER study is the first multicentre UK clinical trial toinvestigate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of supported exercise in theprevention of shoulder problems in high-risk women undergoing breast cancersurgery. The findings will inform future clinical practice and provide valuableinsight into the role of physiotherapy-supported exercise in breast cancerrehabilitation.PROTOCOL VERSION: Version 2.1; dated 11 January 2017 TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER:ISRCTN35358984; Pre-results.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019078 PMCID: PMC5875650PMID: 29574439 