127. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2018 Mar 23. doi: 10.1002/jmri.26011. [Epub ahead of print]Repeatability, reproducibility, and accuracy of quantitative mri of the breast inthe community radiology setting.Sorace AG(1)(2)(3), Wu C(3), Barnes SL(3)(4), Jarrett AM(4), Avery S(5), PattD(6), Goodgame B(7)(8), Luci JJ(3)(9), Kang H(10), Abramson RG(11), YankeelovTE(1)(2)(3)(4), Virostko J(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Diagnostic Medicine, University of Texas at Austin, Austin,Texas, USA.(2)Livestrong Cancer Institutes, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas,USA.(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, Austin,Texas, USA.(4)Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences, University of Texas atAustin, Austin, Texas, USA.(5)Austin Radiological Association, Austin, Texas, USA.(6)Texas Oncology, Austin, Texas, USA.(7)Seton Hospital, Austin, Texas, USA.(8)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas,USA.(9)Department of Neuroscience, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas, USA.(10)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,Tennessee, USA.(11)Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt UniversityMedical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.BACKGROUND: Quantitative diffusion-weighted MRI (DW-MRI) and dynamiccontrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) have the potential to impact patient care byproviding noninvasive biological information in breast cancer.PURPOSE/HYPOTHESIS: To quantify the repeatability, reproducibility, and accuracy of apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and T1 -mapping of the breast incommunity radiology practices.STUDY TYPE: Prospective.SUBJECTS/PHANTOM: Ice-water DW-MRI and T1 gel phantoms were used to assessaccuracy. Normal subjects (n = 3) and phantoms across three sites (one academic, two community) were used to assess reproducibility. Test-retest analysis at onesite in normal subjects (n = 12) was used to assess repeatability.FIELD STRENGTH/SEQUENCE: 3T Siemens Skyra MRI quantitative DW-MRI and T1-mapping.ASSESSMENT: Quantitative DW-MRI and T1 -mapping parametric maps of phantoms andfibroglandular and adipose tissue of the breast.STATISTICAL TESTS: Average values of breast tissue were quantified andBland-Altman analysis was performed to assess the repeatability of the MRItechniques, while the Friedman test assessed reproducibility.RESULTS: ADC measurements were reproducible across sites, with an averagedifference of 1.6% in an ice-water phantom and 7.0% in breast fibroglandulartissue. T1 measurements in gel phantoms had an average difference of 2.8% across three sites, whereas breast fibroglandular and adipose tissue had 8.4% and 7.5%average differences, respectively. In the repeatability study, we found no biasbetween first and second scanning sessions (P = 0.1). The difference betweenrepeated measurements was independent of the mean for each MRI metric (P = 0.156,P = 0.862, P = 0.197 for ADC, T1 of fibroglandular tissue, and T1 of adiposetissue, respectively).DATA CONCLUSION: Community radiology practices can perform repeatable,reproducible, and accurate quantitative T1 -mapping and DW-MRI. This has thepotential to dramatically expand the number of sites that can participate inmultisite clinical trials and increase clinical translation of quantitative MRItechniques for cancer response assessment.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 1 Technical Efficacy: Stage 2 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2018.© 2018 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/jmri.26011 PMID: 29570895 