84. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Jun;102:403-411. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.03.078.Epub 2018 Mar 22.Estrogen: The necessary evil for human health, and ways to tame it.Patel S(1), Homaei A(2), Raju AB(3), Meher BR(4).Author information: (1)Bioinformatics and Medical Informatics Research Center, San Diego StateUniversity, 92182, San Diego, CA, USA. Electronic address: Patel3@rohan.sdsu.edu.(2)Department of Marine Biology, Faculty of Marine Science and Technology,University of Hormozgan, Bandar Abbas, Iran; Department of Biology, Faculty ofSciences, University of Hormozgan, Bandar Abbas, Iran.(3)Department of Pharmacology, Ibn Sina National College for Medical Studies,Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.(4)Department of Botany, Berhampur University, Berhampur, Odisha, 760007, India.Estrogen is a pivotal enzyme for survival and health in both genders, thoughtheir quantum, tropism, tissue-specific distribution, and receptor affinityvaries with different phases of life. Converted from androgen via aromataseenzyme, this hormone is indispensable to glucose homeostasis, immune robustness, bone health, cardiovascular health, fertility, and neural functions. However,estrogen is at the center of almost all human pathologies as well-infectious,autoimmune, metabolic to degenerative. Both hypo and hyper level of estrogen has been linked to chronic and acute diseases. While normal aging is supposed tolower its level, leading to tissue degeneration (bone, muscle, neural etc.), and metabolite imbalance (glucose, lipid etc.), the increment in inflammatory agents in day-to-day life are enhancing the estrogen (or estrogen mimic) level, fueling 'estrogen dominance'. The resultant excess estrogen is inducing an overexpressionof estrogen receptors (ERα and ERβ), harming tissues, leading to autoimmunediseases, and neoplasms. The unprecedented escalation in the polycystic ovarysyndrome, infertility, breast cancer, ovary cancer, and gynecomastia cases areindicating that this sensitive hormone is getting exacerbated. This criticalreview is an effort to analyze the dual, and opposing facets of estrogen, viaunderstanding its crosstalk with other hormones, enzymes, metabolites, and drugs.Why estrogen level correction is no trivial task, and how it can be restored tonormalcy by a disciplined lifestyle with wise dietary and selective chemicalusage choices has been discussed. Overall, our current state of knowledge doesnot disclose the full picture of estrogen's pleiotropic importance. Hence, thisreview should be a resource for general public as well as researchers to work in that direction.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.03.078 PMID: 29573619 