78. Exp Cell Res. 2018 Jun 1;367(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.03.023. Epub 2018 Mar 21.SIRT1 and microRNAs: The role in breast, lung and prostate cancers.Karbasforooshan H(1), Roohbakhsh A(2), Karimi G(3).Author information: (1)Faculty of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(2)Pharmaceutical Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Department of Pharmacodynamics andToxicology, School of pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(3)Pharmaceutical Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Department of Pharmacodynamics andToxicology, School of pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address: KarimiG@mums.ac.ir.Breast cancer and prostate cancer are the most common malignant tumors in female and men, respectively. Furthermore, lung cancer is the leading cause of cancerdeaths worldwide. It is an emergency to develop a powerful strategy to treatthese threatening cancers more effectively, because of low efficacy and highrates of chemotherapy effects. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small non-codingRNAs, are key regulators of gene expression via induction of translationalrepression or mRNA degradation. MiRNA deregulation has been linked to cancerinitiation and progression. Silent Inflammation Regulator 2 (SIR2)proteins-sirtuins- are a family of histone deacetylases (HDACs) that catalyzedeacetylation of both histone and non- histone lysine residues. SIRT1 can act as an oncogene. It plays a role in tumorigenesis by anti-apoptotic activity and isimplicated in diverse cellular process including autophagy, senescence,apoptosis, proliferation, and aging. MicroRNAs and SIRT1 serve as tumorsuppressors or tumor promotors depending on the oncogenic pathway specific toparticular tumors. MicroRNAs modulate cancer development by targeting SIRT1. Inthis review, we underlie the specific mechanisms involved in these threateningcancers by microRNAs/SIRT1 pathways.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.03.023 PMID: 29574020 