128. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 23;13(3):e0194790. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194790.eCollection 2018.Novel putative drivers revealed by targeted exome sequencing of advanced solidtumors.Pannuti A(1), Filipovic A(2), Hicks C(3)(4), Lefkowitz E(5)(6), Ptacek T(5)(6),Stebbing J(2), Miele L(1)(3).Author information: (1)Stanley S. Scott Cancer Center, Louisiana State University Health SciencesCenter, New Orleans, Louisiana, United States of America.(2)Department of Oncology, Imperial College of Medicine, London, United Kingdom.(3)Department of Genetics, Louisiana State University School of Medicine, NewOrleans, Louisiana, United States of America.(4)Biomedical Informatics Key Component, Louisiana Clinical and TranslationalSciences Center, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, United States of America.(5)Department of Microbiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham School ofMedicine, Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America.(6)Informatics Institute, Center for Clinical and Translational Sciences,University of Alabama at Birmingham School of Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama,United States of America.Next generation sequencing (NGS) is becoming increasingly integrated intooncological practice and clinical research. NGS methods have also providedevidence for clonal evolution of cancers during disease progression andtreatment. The number of variants associated with response to specifictherapeutic agents keeps increasing. However, the identification of novel driver mutations as opposed to passenger (phenotypically silent or clinicallyirrelevant) mutations remains a major challenge. We conducted targeted exomesequencing of advanced solid tumors from 44 pre-treated patients with solidtumors including breast, colorectal and lung carcinomas, neuroendocrine tumors,sarcomas and others. We catalogued established driver mutations and putative new drivers as predicted by two distinct algorithms. The established drivers wedetected were consistent with published observations. However, we also detected asignificant number of mutations with driver potential never described before ineach tumor type we studied. These putative drivers belong to key cell fateregulatory networks, including potentially druggable pathways. Should ourobservations be confirmed, they would support the hypothesis that new drivermutations are selected by treatment in clinically aggressive tumors, and indicatea need for longitudinal genomic testing of solid tumors to inform second linecancer treatment.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194790 PMCID: PMC5865730PMID: 29570743  [Indexed for MEDLINE]