19. Int J Cancer. 2018 Mar 25. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31401. [Epub ahead of print]Effect of a tissue selective estrogen complex on breast cancer: Role of uniqueproperties of conjugated equine estrogen.Yue W(1), Wang J(1), Atkins KA(2), Bottalico L(3)(4), Mesaros C(3)(4), BlairIA(3)(4), Santen RJ(1).Author information: (1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, Universityof Virginia Health Systems, Charlottesville, VA.(2)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia Health Systems,Charlottesville, VA.(3)Center of Excellence in Environmental Toxicology and Penn SRP Center, PerelmanSchool of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.(4)Department of Systems Pharmacology and Translational Therapeutics, PerelmanSchool of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.The Women's Health Initiative studies reported that the menopausal hormonetherapy (MHT) regimen containing conjugated equine estrogen (CEE) andmedroxyprogesterone acetate increased, whereas CEE alone reduced breast cancerincidence. These observations suggest the possibility that CEE might exert uniqueactions on breast and also suggest the need to eliminate the progestogen from MHTregimens. A MHT regimen called a tissue selective estrogen complex (TSEC),containing CEE plus bazedoxifene (BZA), to avoid the need for a progestogen, was developed and FDA approved. Our study addressed two questions regarding thisTSEC: (i) whether CEE exert effects on breast cancer which differ from those ofestradiol (E2 ) and (ii) whether BZA antagonize the effects of E2 and CEE onbreast cancer? Two rodent models (NMU and ACI) were used to compare the effect ofCEE with E2 on mammary tumor formation, proliferation and apoptosis. In both the NMU and ACI models, E2 significantly increased tumor incidence and multiplicitywhereas in striking contrast CEE did not, even though the estrogenic effects ofCEE and E2 on uterine weight were identical. Mechanistically E2 blocked whereasCEE stimulated apoptosis (cleaved caspase-3) in ACI animals and only E2stimulated proliferation (Ki67). BZA exerted highly potent anti-estrogeniceffects on tumors by completely blocking palpable tumor formation. These datasuggest that the CEE/BZA TSEC may be a safer, breast-antagonistic, MHT agent for women and might have potential to prevent breast cancer while relievingmenopausal symptoms.© 2018 UICC.DOI: 10.1002/ijc.31401 PMID: 29577272 