112. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2018 Mar 20. pii: S2213-8587(18)30047-0. doi:10.1016/S2213-8587(18)30047-0. [Epub ahead of print]Bone health during endocrine therapy for cancer.Rachner TD(1), Coleman R(2), Hadji P(3), Hofbauer LC(4).Author information: (1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Bone Diseases, Department of MedicineIII, and Center for Healthy Aging, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden,Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), partner site Dresden, and German CancerResearch Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.(2)Department of Oncology and Metabolism, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.(3)Department of Bone Oncology, Krankenhaus Nordwest, Frankfurt andPhilipps-University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.(4)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Bone Diseases, Department of MedicineIII, and Center for Healthy Aging, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden,Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), partner site Dresden, and German CancerResearch Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany. Electronic address:lorenz.hofbauer@uniklinikum-dresden.de.Preservation of bone health remains a long-term clinical challenge in patientswith breast and prostate cancer. Osteoporosis, defined by a loss of bone mass andmicroarchitecture, often results in fragility fractures that are typicallyassociated with a high socioeconomic burden. Endocrine therapy, a mainstaytreatment in the management of patients with hormone-sensitive breast andprostate cancer in the adjuvant setting, commonly exerts adverse effects on themusculoskeletal system and is associated with an increased risk of osteoporosisand fractures. Adjuvant use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues, whichcan also be used in metastatic disease, in combination with tamoxifen inpremenopausal women, and aromatase inhibitors in postmenopausal women withhormone-sensitive breast cancer, causes rapid bone loss and fragility fractures. By contrast, selective oestrogen receptor modulators, such as tamoxifen, havebone-protective effects in postmenopausal women. In men with castration-sensitiveprostate cancer, androgen deprivation is achieved with drugs that lowergonadotropin levels, and these drugs can be combined with androgen receptorantagonists. These therapies induce a high bone turnover with rapid bone lossthat is reminiscent of the changes occurring in early menopause and result in an increased risk of fracture. In this Review, we describe how adjuvant endocrinetherapies of breast and prostate cancer impair bone health and outline evidencefrom randomised controlled trials of strategies to reduce risk of fracture.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/S2213-8587(18)30047-0 PMID: 29572126 