83. Cancer Epidemiol. 2018 Jun;54:38-47. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.03.007. Epub 2018 Mar 21.Social inequalities in quality of life in a cohort of women diagnosed with breastcancer in Barcelona (DAMA Cohort).Graells-Sans A(1), Serral G(2), Puigpinós-Riera R(3); Grupo Cohort DAMA.Author information: (1)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain;Campus Docent Sant Joan de Déu - Fundació privada, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.Electronic address: agraells@santjoandedeu.edu.es.(2)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain;CIBER de Epidemiologia y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain; Institut deRecerca Biomèdica Sant Pau (IIB St. Pau), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. Electronicaddress: gserral@aspb.cat.(3)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain;CIBER de Epidemiologia y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain; Institut deRecerca Biomèdica Sant Pau (IIB St. Pau), Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. Electronicaddress: rpuigpi@aspb.cat.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is a challenge for women's health-related quality oflife (QoL), compromising their physical health and emotional well-being. QoL isequally distributed among different social groups. The aim of this study toanalyze the impact of clinical characteristics and social determinants of health on the QoL of a cohort of women diagnosed and/or treated for breast cancerbetween 2003 and 2013 in one of the main hospitals in Barcelona's public healthnetwork.METHODS: We performed a descriptive cross-sectional study in a cohort of 2235women with various stages of breast cancer at different stages of their disease. Data were obtained using questionnaires QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BR23 from the EuropeanOrganization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), which include a set offunctional and symptomatic scales. We conducted descriptive and bivariateanalysis using the Chi-Square test and adjusted for relevant variables usinglogistic regression. The dependent variables were the functional scales of QoLand the independent variables were sociodemographic and clinical variables.RESULTS: We observed significant differences for most QoL functions. Women fromthe most disadvantaged class, those in social isolation, or those who hadsuffered relapses showed the poorest results for most of the function scales. In contrast, age had differential effects depending on the function studied.CONCLUSIONS: The QoL of women diagnosed with breast cancer is closely linked toboth their social and economic status, and to their stage of disease progression.It is necessary to explore interventions that focus on the social determinants ofhealth in order to mitigate their effects on breast cancer survivors' QoL.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.03.007 PMID: 29573623 