118. J Nanobiotechnology. 2018 Mar 23;16(1):28. doi: 10.1186/s12951-018-0351-4.Paclitaxel and curcumin coadministration in novel cationic PEGylated niosomalformulations exhibit enhanced synergistic antitumor efficacy.Alemi A(1), Zavar Reza J(2)(3), Haghiralsadat F(4), Zarei Jaliani H(5), HaghiKaramallah M(6), Hosseini SA(7), Haghi Karamallah S(8).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Shahid SadoughiUniversity of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.(2)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Shahid SadoughiUniversity of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran. jzavar@ssu.ac.ir.(3)Biotechnology Research Center, International Campus, Shahid SadoughiUniversity of Medical Science, Yazd, Iran. jzavar@ssu.ac.ir.(4)Department of Life Science Engineering, Faculty of New Sciences &Technologies, University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.(5)Protein Engineering Laboratory, Department of Medical Genetics, School ofMedicine, Shahid Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran.(6)Biotechnology Research Center, International Campus, Shahid SadoughiUniversity of Medical Science, Yazd, Iran.(7)Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases Research Center, Ahvaz Jundishapur Universityof Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.(8)Student Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz,Iran.BACKGROUND: The systemic administration of cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents for cancer treatment often has toxic side effects, limiting the usage dose. Toincrease chemotherapeutic efficacy while reducing toxic effects, a rationaldesign for synergy-based drug regimens is essential. This study investigated the augmentation of therapeutic effectiveness with the co-administration ofpaclitaxel (PTX; an effective chemotherapeutic drug for breast cancer) andcurcumin (CUR; a chemosensitizer) in an MCF-7 cell line.RESULTS: We optimized niosome formulations in terms of surfactant and cholesterolcontent. Afterward, the novel cationic PEGylated niosomal formulations containingTween-60: cholesterol:DOTAP:DSPE-mPEG (at 59.5:25.5:10:5) were designed anddeveloped to serve as a model for better transfection efficiency and improvedstability. The optimum formulations represented potential advantages, includingextremely high entrapment efficiency (~ 100% for both therapeutic drug),spherical shape, smooth-surface morphology, suitable positive charge (zetapotential ~ + 15 mV for both CUR and PTX), sustained release, small diameter(~ 90 nm for both agents), desired stability, and augmented cellular uptake.Furthermore, the CUR and PTX kinetic release could be adequately fitted to theHiguchi model. A threefold and 3.6-fold reduction in CUR and PTX concentrationwas measured, respectively, when the CUR and PTX was administered in nano-niosomecompared to free CUR and free PTX solutions in MCF-7 cells. When administered in nano-niosome formulations, the combination treatment of CUR and PTX wasparticularly effective in enhancing the cytotoxicity activity against MCF-7cells.CONCLUSIONS: Most importantly, CUR and PTX, in both free form and niosomal forms,were determined to be less toxic on MCF-10A human normal cells in comparison toMCF-7 cells. The findings indicate that the combination therapy of PTX with CURusing the novel cationic PEGylated niosome delivery is a promising strategy formore effective breast cancer treatment.DOI: 10.1186/s12951-018-0351-4 PMCID: PMC5865280PMID: 29571289 