186. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2018 Mar 21. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djy032. [Epub ahead of print]Involvement of Heparanase in the Pathogenesis of Mesothelioma: Basic Aspects and Clinical Applications.Barash U(1), Lapidot M(2), Zohar Y(3), Loomis C(4), Moreira A(4), Feld S(1),Goparaju C(4), Yang H(5), Hammond E(6), Zhang G(7), Li JP(8), Ilan N(1), NaglerA(9), Pass HI(4), Vlodavsky I(1).Author information: (1)Cancer and Vascular Biology Research Center, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine,Technion, Haifa, Israel.(2)Departments of General Thoracic Surgery, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa,Israel.(3)Departments of Pathology Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa, Israel.(4)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Langone Medical Center, New YorkUniversity School of Medicine, New York, NY.(5)University of Hawaii Cancer Center, Honolulu, HI.(6)Zucero Therapeutics, Darra, Queensland, Australia.(7)Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.(8)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of Uppsala,Uppsala, Sweden.(9)Department of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.Background: Mammalian cells express a single functional heparanase, anendoglycosidase that cleaves heparan sulfate and thereby promotes tumormetastasis, angiogenesis, and inflammation. Malignant mesothelioma is highlyaggressive and has a poor prognosis because of the lack of markers for earlydiagnosis and resistance to conventional therapies. The purpose of this study wasto elucidate the mode of action and biological significance of heparanase inmesothelioma and test the efficacy of heparanase inhibitors in the treatment ofthis malignancy.Methods: The involvement of heparanase in mesothelioma was investigated byapplying mouse models of mesothelioma and testing the effect of heparanase genesilencing (n = 18 mice per experiment; two different models) and heparanaseinhibitors (ie, PG545, defibrotide; n = 18 per experiment; six different models).Synchronous pleural effusion and plasma samples from patients with mesothelioma(n = 35), other malignancies (12 non-small cell lung cancer, two small cell lung carcinoma, four breast cancer, three gastrointestinal cancers, two lymphomas),and benign effusions (five patients) were collected and analyzed for heparanasecontent (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). Eighty-one mesothelioma biopsieswere analyzed by H-Score for the prognostic impact of heparanase usingimmunohistochemistry. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Mesothelioma tumor growth, measured by bioluminescence or tumor weightat termination, was markedly attenuated by heparanase gene silencing (P = .02)and by heparanase inhibitors (PG545 and defibrotide; P < .001 and P = .01,respectively). A marked increase in survival of the mesothelioma-bearing mice (P < .001) was recorded. Heparanase inhibitors were more potent in vivo thanconventional chemotherapy. Clinically, heparanase levels in patients' pleuraleffusions could distinguish between malignant and benign effusions, and aheparanase H-score above 90 was associated with reduced patient survival (hazard ratio = 1.89, 95% confidence interval = 1.09 to 3.27, P = .03).Conclusions: Our results imply that heparanase is clinically relevant inmesothelioma development. Given these preclinical and clinical data, heparanaseappears to be an important mediator of mesothelioma, and heparanase inhibitorsare worthy of investigation as a new therapeutic modality in mesotheliomaclinical trials.DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djy032 PMID: 29579286 