119. Biointerphases. 2018 Mar 23;13(2):021001. doi: 10.1116/1.5023456.Comparative study on antibody immobilization strategies for efficient circulatingtumor cell capture.Ates HC(1), Ozgur E(2), Kulah H(3).Author information: (1)Department of Micro and Nanotechnology, Middle East Technical University,Universiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupinar Bulvari No: 1, Cankaya, Ankara 06800, Turkey and Mikro Biyosistemler Electronics Inc., Mustafa Kemal Mahallesi, DumlupinarBulvari, No: 280-B, Cankaya, Ankara 06530, Turkey.(2)Mikro Biyosistemler Electronics, Inc., Mustafa Kemal Mahallesi, DumlupinarBulvari, No: 280-B, Cankaya, Ankara 06530, Turkey.(3)Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Middle East TechnicalUniversity, Universiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupinar Bulvari No: 1, Cankaya, Ankara06800, Turkey; Department of Micro and Nanotechnology, Middle East TechnicalUniversity, Universiteler Mahallesi, Dumlupinar Bulvari No: 1, Cankaya, Ankara06800, Turkey; and Mikro Biyosistemler Electronics, Inc., Mustafa KemalMahallesi, Dumlupinar Bulvari, No: 280-B, Cankaya, Ankara 06530, Turkey.Methods for isolation and quantification of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) areattracting more attention every day, as the data for their unprecedented clinicalutility continue to grow. However, the challenge is that CTCs are extremely rare (as low as 1 in a billion of blood cells) and a highly sensitive and specifictechnology is required to isolate CTCs from blood cells. Methods utilizingmicrofluidic systems for immunoaffinity-based CTC capture are preferred,especially when purity is the prime requirement. However, antibody immobilizationstrategy significantly affects the efficiency of such systems. In this study, twocovalent and two bioaffinity antibody immobilization methods were assessed withrespect to their CTC capture efficiency and selectivity, using an anti-epithelialcell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) as the capture antibody. Surface functionalizationwas realized on plain SiO2 surfaces, as well as in microfluidic channels.Surfaces functionalized with different antibody immobilization methods arephysically and chemically characterized at each step of functionalization. MCF-7 breast cancer and CCRF-CEM acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell lines were used asEpCAM positive and negative cell models, respectively, to assess CTC captureefficiency and selectivity. Comparisons reveal that bioaffinity based antibodyimmobilization involving streptavidin attachment with glutaraldehyde linker gave the highest cell capture efficiency. On the other hand, a covalent antibodyimmobilization method involving direct antibody binding byN-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride(EDC)-N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) reaction was found to be more time and costefficient with a similar cell capture efficiency. All methods provided very high selectivity for CTCs with EpCAM expression. It was also demonstrated thatantibody immobilization via EDC-NHS reaction in a microfluidic channel leads tohigh capture efficiency and selectivity.DOI: 10.1116/1.5023456 PMID: 29571263 