Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standardsThe authorsdeclare that they have no conflict of interest.26. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 2018 Mar;78(3):246-259. doi: 10.1055/s-0044-101614.Epub 2018 Mar 21.Update Breast Cancer 2018 (Part 2) - Advanced Breast Cancer, Quality of Life and Prevention.Schneeweiss A(1)(2), Lux MP(3), Janni W(4), Hartkopf AD(5), Nabieva N(3), TaranFA(5), Overkamp F(6), Kolberg HC(7), Hadji P(8), Tesch H(9), Wöckel A(10), EttlJ(11), Lüftner D(12), Wallwiener M(2), Müller V(13), Beckmann MW(3), BellevilleE(14), Wallwiener D(5), Brucker SY(5), Schütz F(2), Fasching PA(3), Fehm TN(15).Author information: (1)National Center for Tumor Diseases, Division Gynecologic Oncology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg,Germany.(3)Erlangen University Hospital, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics,Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Friedrich-Alexander UniversityErlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.(4)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Ulm University Hospital, Ulm,Germany.(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Tübingen, Tübingen,Germany.(6)OncoConsult Hamburg GmbH, Hamburg, Germany.(7)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Marienhospital Bottrop, Bottrop,Germany.(8)Department of Bone Oncology, Nordwest Hospital, Frankfurt, Germany.(9)Oncology Practice at Bethanien Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt, Germany.(10)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Würzburg,Würzburg, Germany.(11)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.(12)Charité University Hospital, Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Department of Hematology, Oncology and Tumour Immunology, Berlin, Germany.(13)Department of Gynecology, Hamburg-Eppendorf University Medical Center,Hamburg, Germany.(14)ClinSol GmbH & Co KG, Würzburg, Germany.(15)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Düsseldorf,Düsseldorf, Germany.The treatment of metastatic breast cancer has become more complicated due toincreasing numbers of new therapies which need to be tested. Therapies are nowbeing developed to treat special clinical or molecular subgroups. Even thoughintrinsic molecular subtypes play a major role, more and more new therapies forsubgroups and histological subtypes are being developed, such as the use of PARP inhibitors to treat patients with BRCA mutations (breast and ovarian cancer).Supportive therapies are also evolving, allowing problems such as alopecia ornausea and vomiting to be treated more effectively. Treatment-related sideeffects have a direct impact on the prognosis of patients with metastatic breast cancer, and supportive therapy can improve compliance. Digital tools could beuseful to establish better patient management systems. This overview provides an insight into recent trials and how the findings could affect routine treatment.Current aspects of breast cancer prevention are also presented.Publisher: Die Behandlung des metastasierten Mammakarzinoms hat bei immer neu zu testenden Therapien deutlich an Komplexität zugenommen. Therapien werden nunmehr nur noch für spezielle klinische oder molekulare Subgruppen entwickelt. Hierbeispielen die intrinsischen, molekularen Subtypen zwar immer noch die größte Rolle,jedoch gibt es zunehmend auch Therapien, die subgruppen- oder sogarhistologieübergreifend entwickelt werden, wie z. B. der PARP-Inhibitor beiBRCA-mutierten Patientinnen (Mamma- und Ovarialkarzinom). Aber auchSupportivtherapien entwickeln sich weiter, sodass Probleme wie die Alopeziebesser behandelt werden können und neue Therapiearten von Übelkeit und Erbrechen etabliert werden. In einem engen Zusammenhang mit den Supportivtherapien stehendie Nebenwirkungen, welche bei Patientinnen mit einem metastasiertenMammakarzinom einen direkten Einfluss auf die Prognose haben. Hier könntendigitale Werkzeuge helfen, um ein besseres Patientinnenmanagement zu etablieren. Diese Übersichtsarbeit soll diese Aspekte vor dem Hintergrund neuer, aktuellpublizierter Studien beleuchten und einen Einblick geben, wie sich diese Studien zu etablierten Routinetherapien verhalten. Zusätzlich werden aktuelle Aspekte derMammakarzinomprävention beleuchtet.DOI: 10.1055/s-0044-101614 PMCID: PMC5862553PMID: 29576630 