181. Cancer Epidemiol. 2018 Jun;54:48-55. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.03.009. Epub 2018 Mar 26.Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) as a possible biomarker in non-prostatic cancer: A review.Pérez-Ibave DC(1), Burciaga-Flores CH(2), Elizondo-Riojas MÁ(3).Author information: (1)Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Hospital Universitario "Dr. José EleuterioGonzález" y Facultad de Medicina, Servicio de Oncología, Monterrey, Nuevo León,México. Electronic address: diana.ibave@cucc-uanl.org.(2)Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Hospital Universitario "Dr. José EleuterioGonzález" y Facultad de Medicina, Servicio de Oncología, Monterrey, Nuevo León,México. Electronic address: carlos.burciaga@cucc-uanl.org.(3)Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León, Hospital Universitario "Dr. José EleuterioGonzález" y Facultad de Medicina, Servicio de Oncología, Monterrey, Nuevo León,México. Electronic address: miguel.riojas@cucc-uanl.org.Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is a serine protease produced by epithelialprostatic cells and its main function is to liquefy seminal coagulum. Currently, PSA is a biomarker for the diagnosis and screening of prostate cancer and it was the first cancer biomarker approved by the FDA. The quantity and serum isoformsof male PSA, allows distinguishing between carcinoma and benign inflammatorydisease of the prostate. Initially, it was thought that PSA was produced only by the prostate, and thus, a protein that was expressed exclusively in men. However,several authors report that PSA is a protein that is expressed by multiplenon-prostatic tissues not only in men but also in women. Some authors also reportthat in women, the expression of this protein is highly related to breast andcolon cancer and therefore can act as a possible biomarker for early detection,diagnosis and prognosis of these cancers in women. In this review, we will focus on the characteristics of the PSA at a molecular level, its current clinicalimplications, the expression of this protein in non-prostatic tissues, and itsrelationship with cancer, especially in women.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.03.009 PMID: 29579692 