14. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2018 Apr 18;10(15):12960-12974. doi:10.1021/acsami.7b19109. Epub 2018 Apr 4.Anisamide-Anchored Lyotropic Nano-Liquid Crystalline Particles with AIE Effect: ASmart Optical Beacon for Tumor Imaging and Therapy.Urandur S, Banala VT, Shukla RP, Mittapelly N, Pandey G, Kalleti N, Mitra K, RathSK, Trivedi R, Ramarao P(1), Mishra PR.Author information: (1)Soft Condensed Matter Lab , Raman Research Institute , Bangalore 560080 ,India.The prospective design of nanocarriers for personalized oncotherapy should be an ensemble of targeting, imaging, and noninvasive therapeutic capabilities. Herein,we report the development of the inverse hexagonal nano-liquid crystalline (NLC) particles that are able to host formononetin (FMN), a phytoestrogen with knownanticancer activity, and tetraphenylethene (TPE), an iconic optical beacon withaggregation-induced emission (AIE) signature, simultaneously. Orderedthree-dimensional mesoporous internal structure and high-lipid-volume fraction ofNLC nanoparticles (NLC NPs) frame the outer compartment for the better settlementof payloads. Embellishment of these nanoparticles by anisamide (AA), a novelsigma receptor targeting ligand using carbodiimide coupling chemistry ensuredNLC's as an outstanding vehicle for possible utility in surveillance of tumorlocation as well as the FMN delivery through active AIE imaging. The size andstructural integrity of nanoparticles were evaluated by quasi-elastic lightscattering, cryo field emission scanning electron microscopy small-angle X-rayscattering. The existence of AIE effect in the nanoparticles was evidencedthrough the photophysical studies that advocate the application of NLC NPs influorescence-based bioimaging. Moreover, confocal microscopy illustrated thesingle living cell imaging ability endowed by the NLC NPs. In vitro and in vivostudies supported the enhanced efficacy of targeted nanoparticles (AA-NLC-TF) in comparison to nontargeted nanoparticles (NLC-TF) and free drug. Apparently, this critically designed multimodal NLC NPs may establish a promising platform fortargeted and image-guided chemotherapy for breast cancer.DOI: 10.1021/acsami.7b19109 PMID: 29577719 