63. J Microsc. 2018 Jun;270(3):359-373. doi: 10.1111/jmi.12694. Epub 2018 Mar 25.Extremely thin layer plastification for focused-ion beam scanning electronmicroscopy: an improved method to study cell surfaces and organelles of cultured cells.VAN Donselaar EG(1), Dorresteijn B(2), Popov-Čeleketić D(2)(3), VAN DE WeteringWJ(2)(4), Verrips TC(4), Boekhout T(5)(6), Schneijdenberg CTWM(7), Xenaki AT(2), VAN DER Krift TP(7), Müller WH(7).Author information: (1)Department of Cell Biology, University Medical Center Utrecht (UMCU), Utrecht,the Netherlands.(2)Science Faculty, Biology Department, Utrecht University, Utrecht, theNetherlands.(3)Visuals Consulting, Utrecht, the Netherlands.(4)QVQ, Utrecht, the Netherlands.(5)Westerdijk Fungal Biodiversity Institute, Utrecht Science Park, Utrecht, theNetherlands.(6)Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics (IBED), University ofAmsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.(7)Science Faculty, Chemistry Department, Utrecht University, Utrecht, theNetherlands.Since the recent boost in the usage of electron microscopy in life-scienceresearch, there is a great need for new methods. Recently minimal resin embeddingmethods have been successfully introduced in the sample preparation forfocused-ion beam scanning electron microscopy (FIB-SEM). In these methods severalpossibilities are given to remove as much resin as possible from the surface ofcultured cells or multicellular organisms. Here we introduce an alternative wayin the minimal resin embedding method to remove excess of resin from two widelydifferent cell types by the use of Mascotte filter paper. Our goal in correlativelight and electron microscopic studies of immunogold-labelled breast cancer SKBR3cells was to visualise gold-labelled HER2 plasma membrane proteins as well as theintracellular structures of flat and round cells. We found a significantdifference (p < 0.001) in the number of gold particles of selected cells per 0.6 μm2 cell surface: on average a flat cell contained 2.46 ± 1.98 gold particles,and a round cell 5.66 ± 2.92 gold particles. Moreover, there was a cleardifference in the subcellular organisation of these two cells. The round SKBR3cell contained many organelles, such as mitochondria, Golgi and endoplasmicreticulum, when compared with flat SKBR3 cells. Our next goal was to visualisecrosswall associated organelles, septal pore caps, of Rhizoctonia solani fungalcells by the combined use of a heavy metal staining and our extremely thin layer plastification (ETLP) method. At low magnifications this resulted into easilyfinding septa which appeared as bright crosswalls in the back-scattered electron mode in the scanning electron microscope. Then, a septum was selected forFIB-SEM. Cross-sectioned views clearly revealed the perforate septal pore cap of R. solani next to other structures, such as mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, lipid bodies, dolipore septum, and the pore channel. As the ETLP method wasapplied on two widely different cell types, the use of the ETLP method will bebeneficial to correlative studies of other cell model systems and multicellularorganisms.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Microscopy published by JohnWiley & Sons Ltd onbehalf of Royal Microscopical Society.DOI: 10.1111/jmi.12694 PMID: 29574724 