27. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 2018 Mar;78(3):237-245. doi: 10.1055/s-0044-101613.Epub 2018 Mar 21.Update Breast Cancer 2018 (Part 1) - Primary Breast Cancer and Biomarkers.Taran FA(1), Schneeweiss A(2)(3), Lux MP(4), Janni W(5), Hartkopf AD(1), Nabieva N(4), Overkamp F(6), Kolberg HC(7), Hadji P(8), Tesch H(9), Wöckel A(10), EttlJ(11), Lüftner D(12), Wallwiener M(3), Müller V(13), Beckmann MW(4), BellevilleE(14), Wallwiener D(1), Brucker SY(1), Fasching PA(4), Fehm TN(15), Schütz F(3).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Tübingen, Tübingen,Germany.(2)National Center for Tumor Diseases, Division Gynecologic Oncology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg,Germany.(4)Erlangen University Hospital, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics,Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Friedrich-Alexander UniversityErlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.(5)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Ulm University Hospital, Ulm,Germany.(6)OncoConsult Hamburg GmbH, Hamburg, Germany.(7)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Marienhospital Bottrop, Bottrop,Germany.(8)Department of Bone Oncology, Nordwest Hospital, Frankfurt, Germany.(9)Oncology Practice at Bethanien Hospital Frankfurt, Frankfurt, Germany.(10)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Würzburg,Würzburg, Germany.(11)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.(12)Charité University Hospital, Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Department of Hematology, Oncology and Tumour Immunology, Berlin, Germany.(13)Department of Gynecology, Hamburg-Eppendorf University Medical Center,Hamburg, Germany.(14)ClinSol GmbH & Co KG, Würzburg, Germany.(15)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Düsseldorf,Düsseldorf, Germany.This summary provides an overview of how new therapies or new aspects ofestablished therapies relate to the latest findings. Neoadjuvant therapy, localtherapy, new aspects of systemic therapy, and prognostic and predictive factorsare presented. In the neoadjuvant setting, the association between pathologicalcomplete response (pCR) and prognosis is still of interest as is theidentification of new molecular predictors for new therapies such as CDK4/6inhibitors. As regards surgical treatment, the target is still to reduce theaggressiveness of surgery. To achieve this, a better understanding particularlyof ductal carcinoma in situ is required. With regard to systemic therapy, moredata on the best combinations and therapy sequences for existing therapies isavailable. Finally, the use of prognostic and predictive factors may help toavoid overtreatment and ensure that patients only receive therapies which havebeen shown to be effective for their specific condition and have fewer sideeffects.Publisher: In dieser Übersichtsarbeit wird dargestellt, wie neue Therapien oderneue Aspekte etablierter Therapien in Zusammenhang mit neuesten, aktuellenErkenntnissen stehen. Neoadjuvanz, Lokaltherapie, neue Aspekte der Systemtherapieund Prognose- sowie Prädiktivfaktoren werden beleuchtet. In der Neoadjuvanz istnach wie vor der Zusammenhang zwischen pCR und Prognose von Interesse, ebenso wieneue molekulare Prädiktoren für neue Therapien wie CDK4/6-Inhibitoren zuidentifizieren. Bei der operativen Behandlung wird weiter nach einer Reduktionder Aggressivität gestrebt. Insbesondere das duktale Carcinoma in situ muss dafürnoch besser verstanden werden. Bei den Systemtherapien wächst die Datenlage zumVerständnis der besten Kombinationen und Therapieabläufe für bestehendeTherapieverfahren. Letztendlich muss mithilfe von Prognose- und Prädiktivfaktorenvermieden werden, dass Übertherapien stattfinden und nur die Patientinspezifische Therapien erhält, welche bei dieser individuellen Patientin einenachgewiesene Wirksamkeit mit wenig Nebenwirkungen haben.DOI: 10.1055/s-0044-101613 PMCID: PMC5862549PMID: 29576629 