115. Lung Cancer. 2018 Apr;118:148-154. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2018.02.001. Epub 2018 Feb 4.Eribulin inhibits the growth of small cell lung cancer cell lines alone and with radiotherapy.Helfrich BA(1), Gao D(2), Bunn PA Jr(3).Author information: (1)University of Colorado, Cancer Center and Department of Medicine, UnitedStates; University of Colorado, Division of Medical Oncology, United States.(2)Dept of Biostatistics & Informatics, University of Colorado Denver-AnschutzMedical Center, United States; Dept of Medicine-Pediatrics, University ofColorado Denver-Anschutz Medical Center, United States.(3)University of Colorado, Cancer Center and Department of Medicine, UnitedStates; University of Colorado, Division of Medical Oncology, United States.Electronic address: Paul.Bunn@ucdenver.edu.OBJECTIVES: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients of all stages are treated withetoposide and cisplatin or carboplatin with or without surgery or chestradiotherapy. Initial response rates are ≥70% however the majority of patientsrelapse and are resistant to additional therapies due to pan-resistance to these salvage therapies. Therefore, new treatments are urgently needed. The non-taxane microtubule inhibitor eribulin has produced responses in heavily pretreatedbreast cancer patients. We evaluated the efficacy of eribulin alone and incombination with radiation in a panel of SCLC cell lines established frompatients prior to or after receiving chemotherapy and or radiation.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Growth inhibition by eribulin alone, radiation alone andthe combination was assessed by MTS assay and clonogenic survival. Eribulininduced cell cycle arrest was evaluated by FACS. Apoptosis was evaluated by usingthe Caspase-GLO 3/7 luminescent plate assay and by the Vybrant apoptosis assaywith analysis by FACS.RESULTS: Eribulin mesylate inhibited the growth of all 17-SCLC lines atconcentrations of ≤10 nM which is a clinically achievable dose. Growth inhibitionwas not significantly different between cell lines established prior to or after chemotherapy (p = .5). Concurrent eribulin + radiation induced a greater G2-Marrest, an increase in apoptotic cells and increased growth inhibition overradiation alone.CONCLUSIONS: Eribulin was highly active alone and in combination with radiationin treatment naïve SCLC lines and lines established from previously treatedpatients. In vivo pre-clinical studies of eribulin alone and in combination with radiation should be considered in SCLC cell lines.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2018.02.001 PMCID: PMC5916851PMID: 29571994 