197. Breast Dis. 2018 Mar 19. doi: 10.3233/BD-170307. [Epub ahead of print]The relationship between serum E2 levels and recurrence in premenopausal,ER-positive breast cancer patients: A retrospective study.Takuwa H(1)(2), Saji S(3), Takada M(2), Takahara S(1), Yamauchi A(1).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Surgery, The Tazuke Kofukai Medical Research InstituteKitano Hospital, 2-4-20 Ogi-machi Kita-ku Osaka, 530-8480 Japan.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Fukushima Medical University, Fukushima,Japan.BACKGROUND: Among estrogens, estradiol (E2) has the strongest physiologicalactivity as a stimulator in estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer. Theaim of this study is to investigate E2 dynamics during endocrine therapy and toexplore the optimal environment in which tamoxifen (TAM) exhibits better efficacyfor ER-positive premenopausal early breast cancer patients.METHODS: This is a retrospective study enrolled 194 patients with premenopausalER-positive early-stage breast cancer who aging ≤45 years at onset and receiving luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-agonist (LHRH-a) and TAM-therapy.Approximately half of the patients also received pre- or post-operativechemotherapy as adjuvant systemic therapy. We studied the relationship betweenrecurrence and serum hormonal dynamics during adjuvant therapy. We monitored the concentrations of E2 and, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in the blood before,during, and after treatment. The median follow-up period was 80 (14-555) months.RESULTS: Forty-six (23.7%) patients developed recurrent breast cancer aftersurgery. The prognoses were favorable in the group receiving longer LHRH-aexposure if those patients did not receive chemotherapy as their adjuvanttherapy. Paradoxically, patients with high serum E2 levels after LHRH-a showed a low recurrence ratio. This phenomenon might be explained by the similarmechanisms of estrogen therapy after estrogen depletion by aromatase inhibitor(AI) therapy for metastatic breast cancer.CONCLUSION: Among patients who received endocrine therapy without adjuvantchemotherapy, those with longer LHRH-a exposure had favorable prognoses. Apotential association was observed between recurrence and E2 concentrations inwomen with premenopausal ER-positive early-stage breast cancer.DOI: 10.3233/BD-170307 PMID: 29578459 