11. Med Decis Making. 2018 May;38(4):520-530. doi: 10.1177/0272989X18759482. Epub2018 Mar 24.A Two-Step Markov Processes Approach for Parameterization of CancerState-Transition Models for Low- and Middle-Income Countries.Gopalappa C(1), Guo J(1), Meckoni P(1), Munkhbat B(1), Pretorius C(2), LauerJ(3), Ilbawi A(3), Bertram M(3).Author information: (1)University of Massachusetts Amherst, Amherst, MA, USA.(2)Avenir Health, Glastonbury, CT, USA.(3)World Health Organization, Geneva, GE, Switzerland.Implementation of organized cancer screening and prevention programs inhigh-income countries (HICs) has considerably decreased cancer-related incidence and mortality. In low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), screening and earlydiagnosis programs are generally unavailable, and most cancers are diagnosed inlate stages when survival is very low. Analyzing the cost-effectiveness ofalternative cancer control programs and estimating resource needs will helpprioritize interventions in LMICs. However, mathematical models of natural canceronset and progression needed to conduct the economic analyses are predominantlybased on populations in HICs because the longitudinal data on screening anddiagnoses required for parameterization are unavailable in LMICs. Modelscurrently used for LMICs mostly concentrate on directly calculating the shift in distribution of cancer diagnosis as an evaluative measure of screening. Wepresent a mathematical methodology for the parameterization of natural canceronset and progression, specifically for LMICs that do not have longitudinal data.This full onset and progression model can help conduct comprehensive analyses of cancer control programs, including cancer screening, by considering both thepositive impact of screening as well as any adverse consequences, such asover-diagnosis and false-positive results. The methodology has been applied tobreast, cervical, and colorectal cancers for 2 regions, under the World HealthOrganization categorization: Eastern Sub-Saharan Africa (AFRE) and Southeast Asia(SEARB). The cancer models have been incorporated into the Spectrum software and interfaced with country-specific demographic data through the demographicprojections (DemProj) module and costing data through the OneHealth tool. Thesesoftware are open-access and can be used by stakeholders to analyze screeningstrategies specific to their country of interest.DOI: 10.1177/0272989X18759482 PMID: 29577814 