93. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2018 Aug;60(8):753-764. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.13737. Epub 2018 Mar 24.The risk, burden, and management of non-communicable diseases in cerebral palsy: a scoping review.Ryan JM(1)(2), Allen E(3), Gormley J(4), Hurvitz EA(5), Peterson MD(5).Author information: (1)College of Health and Life Sciences, Brunel University, London, UK.(2)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health Medicine, Royal College ofSurgeons in Ireland, Dublin, Ireland.(3)Department of Medical Statistics, London School of Hygiene and TropicalMedicine, London, UK.(4)School of Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.(5)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Michigan,Ann Arbor, MI, USA.Comment in    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2018 Aug;60(8):733.AIM: To examine the risk, burden, and management of non-communicable diseases(NCDs) among people with cerebral palsy (CP).METHOD: Databases (Ovid MEDLINE, Embase Ovid, CINAHL Plus) were systematicallysearched up to August 2017. Data on the prevalence of risk factors for, and theburden and management of, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, cancers, andrespiratory diseases were extracted.RESULTS: Thirty-six studies that examined the prevalence of risk factors amongpeople with CP were identified. There was inconsistent evidence that people with CP had higher prevalence of metabolic risk factors such as hypertension,hyperlipidaemia, and obesity, but strong evidence that they participated in lowlevels of physical activity, compared with people without CP. Seven studiesreported on the burden of NCDs. Adults with CP had a higher risk of NCDs,including stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and other heartconditions, and death due to NCDs, including cancers, chronic obstructivepulmonary disease, stroke, and ischaemic heart disease, compared with the generalpopulation. Only one study reported on the management of NCD, specifically theuptake of breast cancer screening among females.INTERPRETATION: The burden of NCDs is higher among adults with CP compared withthe general population. Further research is required to determine the prevalence of metabolic risk factors and management of NCDs among people with CP.WHAT THIS PAPER ADDS: Adults with cerebral palsy (CP) have an increased risk ofnon-communicable diseases (NCDs) and increased risk of death because of NCDs.Evidence is inconsistent about the elevated prevalence of metabolic risk factors for NCDs. Evidence is consistent that people with CP participate in reducedphysical activity. Only one study reported on management of NCD among people withCP. Available evidence suggests people with CP are less likely to receivepreventive medicine.© 2018 The Authors. Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology published by JohnWiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Mac KeithPress.DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.13737 PMID: 29572812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]