187. Carcinogenesis. 2018 Jul 3;39(7):921-930. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgy045.A polymorphism in the lysyl oxidase propeptide domain acceleratescarcinogen-induced cancer.de la Cueva A(1), Emmerling M(1), Lim SL(1), Yang S(2), Trackman PC(3),Sonenshein GE(4), Kirsch KH(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Boston University School ofMedicine, Boston, MA, USA.(3)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, Boston University Henry M. GoldmanSchool of Dental Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.(4)Department of Developmental, Molecular and Chemical Biology, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.The propeptide (LOX-PP) domain of the lysyl oxidase proenzyme was shown toinhibit the transformed phenotype of breast, lung and pancreatic cells in cultureand the formation of Her2/neu-driven breast cancer in a xenograft model. A singlenucleotide polymorphism (SNP, rs1800449) positioned in a highly conserved region of LOX-PP results in an Arg158Gln substitution (humans). This arginine(Arg)→glutamine (Gln) substitution profoundly impaired the ability of LOX-PP toinhibit the invasive phenotype and xenograft tumor formation. To study the effectof the SNP in vivo, here we established a knock in (KI) mouse line (LOX-PPGlnmice) expressing an Arg152Gln substitution corresponding to the human Arg158Glnpolymorphism. Breast cancer was induced in wild-type (WT) and LOX-PPGln femalemice beginning at 6 weeks of age by treatment with 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene(DMBA) in combination with progesterone. Time course analysis of tumordevelopment demonstrated earlier tumor onset and shorter overall survival inLOX-PPGln versus WT mice. To further compare the tumor burden in WT and LOX-PPGlnmice, inguinal mammary glands from both groups of mice were examined formicroscopic lesion formation. LOX-PPGln glands contained more lesions (9.6 versus6.9 lesions/#4 bilateral). In addition, more DMBA-treated LOX-PPGln mice hadincreased leukocyte infiltrations in their livers and were moribund compared withDMBA-treated WT mice. Thus, these data indicate that the Arg→Gln substitution in LOX-PP could be an important marker associated with a more aggressive cancerphenotype and that this KI model is ideal for further mechanistic studiesregarding the tumor suppressor function of LOX-PP.DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgy045 PMID: 29579155 