105. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 27;13(3):e0195029. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195029.eCollection 2018.Visualizing the Bayesian 2-test case: The effect of tree diagrams on medicaldecision making.Binder K(1), Krauss S(1), Bruckmaier G(2), Marienhagen J(3).Author information: (1)Mathematics Education, Faculty of Mathematics, University of Regensburg,Regensburg, Germany.(2)Institute for Primary Education, School of Education, FHNW University ofApplied Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland, Liestal, Switzerland.(3)University Hospital Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany.In medicine, diagnoses based on medical test results are probabilistic by nature.Unfortunately, cognitive illusions regarding the statistical meaning of testresults are well documented among patients, medical students, and evenphysicians. There are two effective strategies that can foster insight into what is known as Bayesian reasoning situations: (1) translating the statisticalinformation on the prevalence of a disease and the sensitivity and thefalse-alarm rate of a specific test for that disease from probabilities intonatural frequencies, and (2) illustrating the statistical information with treediagrams, for instance, or with other pictorial representation. So far, suchstrategies have only been empirically tested in combination for "1-test cases",where one binary hypothesis ("disease" vs. "no disease") has to be diagnosedbased on one binary test result ("positive" vs. "negative"). However, in reality,often more than one medical test is conducted to derive a diagnosis. In twostudies, we examined a total of 388 medical students from the University ofRegensburg (Germany) with medical "2-test scenarios". Each student had to work ontwo problems: diagnosing breast cancer with mammography and sonography testresults, and diagnosing HIV infection with the ELISA and Western Blot tests. InStudy 1 (N = 190 participants), we systematically varied the presentation ofstatistical information ("only textual information" vs. "only tree diagram" vs."text and tree diagram in combination"), whereas in Study 2 (N = 198participants), we varied the kinds of tree diagrams ("complete tree" vs."highlighted tree" vs. "pruned tree"). All versions were implemented inprobability format (including probability trees) and in natural frequency format (including frequency trees). We found that natural frequency trees, especiallywhen the question-related branches were highlighted, improved performance, butthat none of the corresponding probabilistic visualizations did.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195029 PMCID: PMC5871005PMID: 29584770  [Indexed for MEDLINE]