Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST S.T. received grant supportfrom Merck Serono. C.I. received grant support from Mochida, Kyowa-Kirin, Eizai, Chugai, Tsumura, Novartis, Merck- Serono, Daiichi-Sankyo, Takeda, Nihon-Kayaku,Yakult, Taiho, Ono, Astellas, Asahikasei-Parma, Kissei, Bristol. S.K. receivedgrant support from Novartis, Chugai, Taiho, and Merck- Serono. All remainingauthors have no conflicts of interest.141. Oncotarget. 2018 Feb 6;9(18):14175-14192. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.24419.eCollection 2018 Mar 6.RUNX1 and RUNX3 protect against YAP-mediated EMT, stem-ness and shorter survival outcomes in breast cancer.Kulkarni M(1)(2), Tan TZ(1), Syed Sulaiman NB(1), Lamar JM(3)(4), Bansal P(1)(5),Cui J(1), Qiao Y(1), Ito Y(1)(6).Author information: (1)Cancer Science Institute, NUS, Singapore.(2)Current address: Transnational Cancer Research Centre, Prashanti Cancer CareMission and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, India.(3)Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Cambridge, MA, USA.(4)Current address: Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, AlbanyMedical College, Albany, NY, USA.(5)Current address: Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology, Tübingen,Germany.(6)Yong Loo Lin Professor in Medical Oncology, NUS, Singapore.Hippo pathway target, YAP has emerged as an important player in solid tumorprogression. Here, we identify RUNX1 and RUNX3 as novel negative regulators ofoncogenic function of YAP in the context of breast cancer. RUNX proteins are one of the first transcription factors identified to interact with YAP. RUNX1 orRUNX3 expression abrogates YAP-mediated pro-tumorigenic properties of mammaryepithelial cell lines in an interaction dependent manner. RUNX1 and RUNX3 inhibitYAP-mediated migration and stem-ness properties of mammary epithelial cell lines by co-regulating YAP-mediated gene expression. Analysis of whole genomeexpression profiles of breast cancer samples revealed significant co-relationbetween YAP-RUNX1/RUNX3 expression levels and survival outcomes of breast cancer patients. High RUNX1/RUNX3 expression proved protective towards YAP-dependentpatient survival outcomes. High YAP in breast cancer patients' expressionprofiles co-related with EMT and stem-ness gene signature enrichment. HighRUNX1/RUNX3 expression along with high YAP reflected lower enrichment of EMT and stem-ness signatures. This antagonistic activity of RUNX1 and RUNX3 towardsoncogenic function of YAP identified in mammary epithelial cells as well as inbreast cancer expression profiles gives a novel mechanistic insight intooncogene-tumor suppressor interplay in the context of breast cancer progression. The novel interplay between YAP, RUNX1 and RUNX3 and its significance in breastcancer progression can serve as a prognostic tool to predict cancer recurrence.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.24419 PMCID: PMC5865662PMID: 29581836 