52. Hormone Therapy for the Primary Prevention of Chronic Conditions inPostmenopausal Women: An Evidence Review for the U.S. Preventive Services TaskForce [Internet].Gartlehner G(1), Patel SV(1), Viswanathan M(1), Feltner C(1), Weber RP(1), LeeR(1), Mullican K(1), Boland E(1), Lux L(1), Lohr K(1).Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US); 2017 Dec. ReportNo.: 15-05227-EF-1.U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly SystematicEvidence Reviews.Author information: (1)RTI International–University of North Carolina Evidence-based Practice CenterBACKGROUND: Hormone therapy plays an important role in the clinical management ofmenopausal symptoms. Because of an increased risk of harms, hormone therapy iscurrently not recommended for the primary prevention of chronic conditions.PURPOSE: To update evidence on the effectiveness of hormone therapy in reducingrisk of chronic conditions, its adverse effects, and differences among populationsubgroups for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.DATA SOURCES: We searched MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, and Embase forEnglish-language articles (through August 1, 2016). We conducted searches forunpublished literature by searching ClinicalTrials.gov, HSRProj, the World HealthOrganization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, and NIH RePORTER.In addition, we reviewed reference lists of pertinent review articles and studiesmeeting our inclusion criteria.STUDY SELECTION: We dually reviewed the literature and included randomized,placebo-controlled trials that provided information on the primary prevention of chronic conditions with hormone therapy and reported health outcomes.DATA EXTRACTION: We abstracted details about participants, study design,analysis, followup, and results; study quality and strength of evidence wererated using established criteria.DATA SYNTHESIS: Seventeen fair-quality trials met eligibility criteria. TheWomen's Health Initiative (WHI) was the largest study and most applicable to the target population. Results of our review indicate differences in the risk-benefitprofile between treatment formulations. Women using estrogen only hadstatistically significantly lower risk (per 10,000 women over 6.8 to 7.2 years)of diabetes (137 fewer cases) and fractures (382 fewer cases) than women takingplacebo. However, risk (per 10,000 women over 5.4 to 7.1 years) was statisticallysignificantly increased for gallbladder disease (213 more cases), stroke (79 morecases), and venous thromboembolism (78 more cases). The risk of urinaryincontinence (1,261 more cases per 10,000 women) was increased during a followup of 1 year. Women using estrogen plus progestin therapy experienced statistically significantly lower risk (per 10,000 women over 5.0 to 5.6 years) for colorectal cancer (33 fewer cases), diabetes (77 fewer cases), and fractures (222 fewercases) than women taking placebo. Risk (per 10,000 women over 4 to 5.6 years) of invasive breast cancer (52 more cases), probable dementia (88 more cases),gallbladder disease (116 more cases), stroke (53 more cases), and venousthromboembolism (120 more cases) was statistically significantly increasedcompared with women taking placebo. The risk of urinary incontinence (876 morecases per 10,000 women) was increased during a followup of 1 year.LIMITATIONS: Few trials or subgroup analyses were powered for preventionoutcomes. No comparative evidence on type, dose, and mode of delivery of hormone therapy is available. The applicability of results to younger women who initiate hormone therapy for the management of menopausal symptoms and to women withnonwhite ethnic backgrounds might be limited.CONCLUSIONS: Women undergoing hormone therapy for the primary prevention ofchronic conditions experience some beneficial effects but also an increased risk of harms.PMID: 29589880 