72. J Bioenerg Biomembr. 2018 Apr;50(2):93-105. doi: 10.1007/s10863-018-9750-3. Epub 2018 Mar 28.Ocimum basilicum but not Ocimum gratissimum present cytotoxic effects on humanbreast cancer cell line MCF-7, inducing apoptosis and triggering mTOR/Akt/p70S6K pathway.Torres RG(1), Casanova L(2), Carvalho J(1), Marcondes MC(1)(3), Costa SS(2),Sola-Penna M(4), Zancan P(5).Author information: (1)Laboratório de Oncobiologia Molecular (LabOMol), Departamento de BiotecnologiaFarmacêutica, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro(UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.(2)Instituto de Pesquisa em Produtos Naturais (IPPN), Universidade Federal do Riode Janeiro (UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 21941-903, Brazil.(3)Instituto Nacional de Câncer (INCa), Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.(4)Laboratório de Enzimologia e Controle do Metabolismo (LabECoM), Departamentode Biotecnologia Farmacêutica, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Riode Janeiro (UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.(5)Laboratório de Oncobiologia Molecular (LabOMol), Departamento de BiotecnologiaFarmacêutica, Faculdade de Farmácia, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro(UFRJ), Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. pzancan@me.com.Breast cancer is the major cause of death by cancer in women worldwide and inspite of the many drugs for its treatment, there is still the need for noveltherapies for its control. Ocimum species have been used by traditional medicine to control several diseases, including cancer. We have previously characterizedthe antidiabetic properties of the unfractionated aqueous leaf extracts of Ocimumbasilicum (OB) and Ocimum gratissimum (OG), modulating glucose metabolism indiabetic mice. Since glucose metabolism is primordial for cancer cells survival, we hypothesized that these extracts are effective against cancer cells. Theunfractionated aqueous leaf extracts of OB and OG were chemically characterizedand tested for their cytotoxic, cytostatic and anti-proliferative propertiesagainst the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7. Both extracts presentedcytostatic effects with an 80% decrease in MCF-7 cell growth at 1 mg/mL. However,only OB promoted cytotoxic effects, interfering with the cell viability evenafter interruption of the treatment. Moreover, OB but not OG affected the cellproliferation and metabolism, evaluated in terms of lactate production andintracellular ATP content. After 24 h of treatment, OB treated cells presented anapoptotic profile, while OG treated cells were more necrotic. The treatment with both extracts also activated AMPK, but OB was much more efficient than OG inpromoting this. The activation of mTOR signaling, another survival pathway waspromoted by OB, whereas OG failed to activate it. In the end, we conclude that OBextract is efficient against the human breast cancer cell line.DOI: 10.1007/s10863-018-9750-3 PMID: 29589262 