Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.29. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2018 Mar 19;10:189-199. doi: 10.2147/CEOR.S146095.eCollection 2018.Clinical and economic impact of the 21-gene recurrence score assay in adjuvanttherapy decision making in patients with early-stage breast cancer: pooledanalysis in 4 Basque Country university hospitals.Martínez Del Prado P(1), Alvarez-López I(2)(3), Domínguez-Fernández S(4),Plazaola A(5), Ibarrondo O(6), Galve-Calvo E(1), Ancizar-Lizarraga N(2)(3),Gutierrez-Toribio M(4), Lahuerta-Martínez A(5), Mar J(6)(7).Author information: (1)Medical Oncology Service, Basurto University Hospital, Bilbao, Spain.(2)Medical Oncology Service, Donostia University Hospital, Donostia-SanSebastián, Spain.(3)Biodonostia Health Research Institute, Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain.(4)Medical Oncology Service, Araba University Hospital, Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain.(5)Medical Oncology Service, Onkologikoa, Donostia-San Sebastián, Spain.(6)AP-OSI Research Unit, Alto Deba Integrated Health Care Organization,Mondragon, Spain.(7)Health Services Research on Chronic Patients Network, Kronikgune Group,Bilbao, Spain.Purpose: The 21-gene recurrence score (RS) is a genomic test developed as aprognostic and predictive tool to improve the treatment decision making in cases of estrogen receptor-positive and human epidermal growth factor receptor2-negative early-stage breast cancer. This study examined the clinical andeconomic impact of its use in 4 Basque Country university hospitals.Methods: Taking into consideration the RS result, we recorded the recommendedinitial systemic adjuvant therapy (endocrine therapy with or withoutchemotherapy) according to standard clinicopathologic factors and the finaldecision about chemotherapy. Then, if the RS was high, chemotherapy wasrecommended; it was not recommended if the RS was low; for those with anintermediate RS, clinicopathologic factors were considered, and the initialrecommendation based on those factors was maintained. In addition, theprobability of switching treatment was calculated. Then, we developed an economicevaluation by measuring the treatment's incremental short-term budget impact fromboth the societal perspective and that of the Basque Health System. Patients'characteristics and chemotherapy use were analyzed using logistic regressions andreceiver operating characteristic curves.Results: Without an RS, chemotherapy would have been prescribed to 56% of 401patients, but, with RS use, that percentage decreased to 25. The overall rate of decision change was 35.4%. Test inclusion led to a reduction in chemotherapycosts of €922 per patient in the total population. Although this reduction didnot entirely offset the cost of the test, the productivity loss per patient wasreduced by €1,977.Conclusion: The 21-gene RS test significantly changed the indication forchemotherapy. As chemotherapy treatments with no benefit were avoided, patients' quality of life was improved. The short-term economic impact was negative for theBasque Health Service, but savings resulted when sick-leave costs were included.DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S146095 PMCID: PMC5863711PMID: 29593426 