200. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Jan;34(1):53-58.[Nucleocytoplasmic translocation of ING5 protein in breast cancer and itscorrelation with poor clinicopathological characteristics of breast cancer].[Article in Chinese]Song Y(1), Zhao S(2), Qi F(3), Zheng H(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, First Affiliated Hospital, Jinzhou MedicalUniversity, Jinzhou 121001, China.(2)Department of Thyroid Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, Jinzhou MedicalUniversity, Jinzhou 121001, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail:zhaosp2005@163.com.(3)Department of Pathology, Shenzhen Luohu People's Hospital, Shenzhen 518000,China.(4)Department of Experimental Oncology and Animal Center, Shengjing Hospital ofChina Medical University, Shenyang 110004, China.Objective To investigate the nucleocytoplasmic translocation of inhibitor ofgrowth family member 5 (ING5) gene in human breast cancer and the negativecorrelation between the nuclear high expression of ING5 protein and theclinicopathological characteristics of breast cancer. Methods We collected 260cases of clinical primary breast cancer, 55 cases of metastatic cancer in lymphnode, 61 cases of breast fibroadenoma, 110 cases of adenomatosis, and 91 cases ofpara-cancerous tissues. With the tissue microarrays, we detected ING5 expression in the nucleus and cytoplasm through immunohistochemistry, and statisticallyanalyzed the correlations of nuclear and cytoplasmic ING5 expression with theclinicopathological characteristics of breast cancer. Results The expression ofnuclear ING5 in the para-cancerous tissues was obviously higher than that in the fibroadenoma, adenomatosis and primary breast cancer; it was higher in theadenomatosis than in the primary breast cancer, and higher in the primary breast cancer than in the metastatic cancer in lymph node. The cytoplasmic ING5expression in the para-carcinoma tissue was higher than that in the fibroadenoma,adenomatosis and primary breast cancer. These data suggested thenucleocytoplasmic translocation of ING5 protein in breast cancer. Moreover,nuclear ING5 high expression was negatively correlated with distant metastasisand positively with P53 expression, while cytoplasmic ING5 high expression waspositively correlated with tumor size and estrogen receptor expression. Thecytoplasm ING5 expression of triple-negative breast cancer was lower than that inthe non-triple-negative breast cancer. Conclusion Nucleocytoplasmic translocationof ING5 protein occurs in breast cancer, and the high expression of nuclear ING5 is inversely related to some poor clinicopathological behaviors of breast cancer.PMID: 29595458 