25. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Mar 13;9:158. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00158. eCollection2018.Pathway-Based Analysis of Genome-Wide Association Data Identified SNPs in HMMR asBiomarker for Chemotherapy- Induced Neutropenia in Breast Cancer Patients.Bidadi B(1), Liu D(1), Kalari KR(2), Rubner M(3), Hein A(3), Beckmann MW(3), RackB(4), Janni W(5), Fasching PA(3), Weinshilboum RM(1), Wang L(1).Author information: (1)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Molecular Pharmacology andExperimental Therapeutics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United States.(2)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Department of HealthSciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United States.(3)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Erlangen,Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.(4)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Ludwig-Maximilians-UniversitätMünchen, Munich, Germany.(5)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm,Germany.Neutropenia secondary to chemotherapy in breast cancer patients can belife-threatening and there are no biomarkers available to predict the risk ofdrug-induced neutropenia in those patients. We previously performed a genome-wideassociation study (GWAS) for neutropenia events in women with breast cancer whowere treated with 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide and recruitedto the SUCCESS-A trial. A genome-wide significant single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) signal in the tumor necrosis factor superfamily member 13B (TNFSF13B) gene,encoding the cytokine B-cell activating factor (BAFF), was identified in thatGWAS. Taking advantage of these existing GWAS data, in the present study weutilized a pathway-based analysis approach by leveraging knowledge of thepharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs and breast cancer pathophysiology to identify additional SNPs/genes associated with the underlying etiology ofchemotherapy-induced neutropenia. We identified three SNPs in the hyaluronanmediated motility receptor (HMMR) gene that were significantly associated withneutropenia (p < 1.0E-04). Those three SNPs were trans-expression quantitativetrait loci for the expression of TNFSF13B (p < 1.0E-04). The minor allele ofthese HMMR SNPs was associated with a decreased TNFSF13B mRNA level. Additionalfunctional studies performed with lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) demonstratedthat LCLs possessing the minor allele for the HMMR SNPs were more sensitive todrug treatment. Knock-down of TNFSF13B in LCLs and HL-60 promyelocytic cells and treatment of those cells with BAFF modulated the cell sensitivity to chemotherapytreatment. These results demonstrate that HMMR SNP-dependent cytotoxicity ofthese chemotherapeutic agents might be related to TNFSF13B expression level. Insummary, utilizing a pathway-based approach for the analysis of GWAS data, weidentified additional SNPs in the HMMR gene that were associated with neutropeniaand also were correlated with TNFSF13B expression.DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00158 PMCID: PMC5859084PMID: 29593529 