17. Eur Thyroid J. 2018 Jan;7(1):44-50. doi: 10.1159/000481620. Epub 2017 Nov 21.A Case Report of Syndromic Multinodular Goitre in Adolescence: Exploring thePhenotype Overlap between Cowden and DICER1 Syndromes.Bouron-Dal Soglio D(1), de Kock L(2)(3), Gauci R(4), Sabbaghian N(2), ThomasE(4)(5), Atkinson HC(6), Pachter N(6)(7), Ryan S(8), Walsh JP(6)(9), KumarasingheMP(10), Carpenter K(11), Aydoğan A(12), Stewart CJR(7), Foulkes WD(2)(3)(13),Choong CS(5)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, CHU Sainte-Justine, Montreal, Québec, Canada.(2)The Lady Davis Institute, Segal Cancer Centre, Jewish General Hospital,Montreal, Québec, Canada.(3)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montreal, Québec, Canada.(4)Nuclear Medicine, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands, Washington,Australia.(5)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Princess Margaret Hospital forChildren, Subiaco, Washington, Australia.(6)Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, School<bold></bold> of Medicine, TheUniversity of Western Australia, Crawley, Washington, Australia.(7)King Edward Memorial Hospital, Perth, Washington, Australia.(8)Department of General Surgery, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands,Washington, Australia.(9)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital,Nedlands, Washington, Australia.(10)PathWest, QEII Medical Centre, Perth, Washington, Australia.(11)Department of Diagnostic Genomics, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, QEII MedicalCentre, Nedlands, Washington, Australia.(12)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Bilkent University, Ankara,Turkey.(13)Department of Medical Genetics,<bold></bold> Research Institute of the McGillUniversity Health Centre, Montreal, Québec, Canada.Background: Hereditary tumour predisposition syndromes may increase the risk for development of thyroid nodules at a young age. We present the case of anadolescent female with Cowden syndrome who had some atypical phenotypic features which overlapped with the DICER1 syndrome.Material and Methods: A 17-year-old female presented with a 3-month history ofprogressive right neck swelling. Fine needle cytology of the thyroid revealed afollicular neoplasm with features suggestive of follicular variant of papillarythyroid carcinoma and she underwent a hemithyroidectomy. Enlarging nodules in theremaining thyroid led to a completion thyroidectomy at 19 years of age. Thepatient's past medical history included an ovarian mixed malignant germ celltumour, pulmonary nodules and cysts, renal cysts, mucocutaneous lesions, anarachnoid cyst, and a fibrous breast lesion. Macrocephaly was noted on physicalexamination.Results: Based on the patient's complex phenotype and young age, a hereditarypredisposition syndrome was suspected and genetic testing of PTEN and DICER1 was undertaken. A heterozygous truncating germ-line PTEN mutation was identified,which combined with clinical findings, met criteria for the diagnosis of Cowdensyndrome. Additional loss of heterozygosity of the wild-type PTEN allele wasdetected in the right thyroid lesion and ovarian tumour. No DICER1 mutations wereidentified.Conclusions: Genetic testing was crucial in elucidating this patient'spredisposition to the early development of neoplastic and non-neoplasticconditions. Our report also highlights the phenotypic overlap between the Cowden and DICER1 syndromes and illustrates the importance of recognising the variablephenotypic features of hereditary syndromes in order to enable timelyimplementation of appropriate care.DOI: 10.1159/000481620 PMCID: PMC5836238PMID: 29594054 