43. Oncologist. 2018 Jun;23(6):697-703. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0485. Epub2018 Mar 28.Administration of the Tablet Formulation of Olaparib in Patients with OvarianCancer: Practical Guidance and Expectations.Moore KN(1), Birrer MJ(2).Author information: (1)Stephenson Oklahoma Cancer Center, University of Oklahoma Health SciencesCenter, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, USA Kathleen-Moore@ouhsc.edu.(2)Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts,USA.Olaparib is a poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase enzyme inhibitor that is approved foruse in patients with advanced ovarian cancer (OC) and genetic BRCA1/2 mutationswho have received three or more prior lines of chemotherapy for maintenancetreatment of recurrent OC that is in response to platinum-based chemotherapyregardless of BRCA mutation status and for human epidermal growth receptor factor2-negative metastatic breast cancer with deleterious or suspected deleteriousgermline BRCA mutations who have previously been treated with chemotherapy in theneoadjuvant, adjuvant, or metastatic setting. Because olaparib is poorly soluble and requires advanced drug delivery techniques to ensure bioavailability, theoriginally approved 400 mg dose is taken as eight 50 mg capsules twice daily. An alternative melt-extrusion tablet formulation was developed to improve thepharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of olaparib and reduce the pillburden for patients. The recommended tablet dose is 300 mg twice daily (two 150mg tablets). Phase III studies with the tablet formulation are ongoing formultiple tumor types. Two studies conducted with the olaparib tablet formulation have reported results: one in platinum-sensitive, BRCA-mutated recurrent OC(SOLO-2) and one that included patients with germline BRCA-mutated metastaticbreast cancer (OlympiAD). The tablet is the approved formulation based on theSOLO-2 trial results. Because the capsule and tablet formulations have different bioavailability, physicians must strictly adhere to the dosing instructionsprovided in the prescribing information. The tablet offers greater conveniencefor most patients, especially when using olaparib for maintenance therapy. Thisreview discusses the differences between the two formulations, dosedetermination, and guidance for use of olaparib tablets by patients with OC.Prior to implementing any changes in therapy, health care providers should engagetheir patients in discussion to support an informed transition between theformulations.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Olaparib has recently been approved formaintenance treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer (OC) that is in response toplatinum-based chemotherapy. The originally approved capsule formulation wasdosed as 400 mg twice daily (eight 50 mg capsules). The recommended olaparibtablet dose is 300 mg twice daily (two 150 mg tablets). The tablet is the newapproved formulation based on the SOLO-2 trial results. Because the capsule andtablet formulations have different bioavailability, physicians must strictlyadhere to the dosing instructions provided in the prescribing information. Thetablet offers greater convenience for most patients, especially when usingolaparib for maintenance therapy. This review discusses the differences betweenthe two formulations, dose determination, and guidance for use of olaparibtablets by patients with OC.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0485 PMCID: PMC6067940 [Available on 2019-06-01]PMID: 29593098 