179. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 29;13(3):e0194164. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194164.eCollection 2018.Specific protein carbonylation in human breast cancer tissue compared to adjacenthealthy epithelial tissue.Aryal B(1), Rao VA(1).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Applied Biochemistry, Division of Biotechnology Review andResearch III, Office of Biotechnology Products, Center for Drug Evaluation andResearch, U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Silver Spring, Maryland, UnitedStates of America.Protein carbonylation is an irreversible post-translational modification induced by severe oxidative stress. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are constantly producedin cells and play important roles in both cancer progression and cancersuppression. ROS levels can be higher in tumor compared to surrounding healthytissue but ROS-induced specific protein carbonylation and its unique role incancer progression or suppression is poorly understood. In this study, weutilized previously validated ELISA and western blot methods to analyze the totaland specific protein carbonylation in flash-frozen human breast cancer andmatched adjacent healthy tissue to compare relative total, and specific proteincarbonylation. Mass spectrometry, two-color western, and immunoprecipitationmethods were used to identify and confirm the specifically carbonylated proteins in breast tumor tissue. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was measured as anindicator of antioxidant activity, and LC3-II protein level was analyzed forautophagy by western blot. Findings were further confirmed using the immortalizedMDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-468 breast cancer and MCF-12A noncancerous human epithelialbreast cell lines. Our results indicate that tumor tissue has greater totalprotein carbonylation, lower SOD1 and SOD2 protein levels, lower total SODactivity, and higher LC3-II levels compared to adjacent healthy tissue. Weidentified and confirmed three specific proteins of interest; filamin A, heatshock protein 90β (HSP90β), and bifunctional glutamate/proline-tRNA ligase(EPRS), that were selectively carbonylated in tumor tissue compared to matchedadjacent healthy tissue. Correspondingly, compared to noncancerous MCF-12Aepithelial cells, MDA-MB-231 cancer cells exhibited an increase in filamin A and EPRS protein carbonylation, decreased total SOD activity, and increasedautophagy, but not increased HSP90β protein carbonylation. Identification ofselectively carbonylated proteins and defining their roles in cancer progression may promote the development of targeted therapeutic approaches toward mitigating oxidative damage of these proteins.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194164 PMCID: PMC5875748PMID: 29596499  [Indexed for MEDLINE]