24. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Mar 14;9:220. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00220. eCollection2018.Apigenin and Luteolin Attenuate the Breaching of MDA-MB231 Breast CancerSpheroids Through the Lymph Endothelial Barrier in Vitro.Hong J(1)(2)(3), Fristiohady A(3)(4)(5), Nguyen CH(3)(4), Milovanovic D(3),Huttary N(3), Krieger S(3), Hong J(6), Geleff S(3), Birner P(3), Jäger W(4),Özmen A(7), Krenn L(1), Krupitza G(3).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Vienna,Vienna, Austria.(2)School of Pharmacy, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.(3)Clinical Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna,Austria.(4)Department for Clinical Pharmacy and Diagnostics, Faculty of Life Sciences,University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.(5)Faculty of Pharmacy, Halu Oleo University, Kendari, Indonesia.(6)Department of Medical Oncology, The 188th Hospital of People's Liberation Armyof China, Chaozhou, China.(7)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science and Art, Adnan Menderes University, Aydin, Turkey.Flavonoids, present in fruits, vegetables and traditional medicinal plants, show anticancer effects in experimental systems and are reportedly non-toxic. This is a favorable property for long term strategies for the attenuation of lymph nodemetastasis, which may effectively improve the prognostic states in breast cancer.Hence, we studied two flavonoids, apigenin and luteolin exhibiting strongbio-activity in various test systems in cancer research and are readily availableon the market. This study has further advanced the mechanistic understanding ofbreast cancer intravasation through the lymphatic barrier. Apigenin and luteolin were tested in a three-dimensional (3-D) assay consisting of MDA-MB231 breastcancer spheroids and immortalized lymph endothelial cell (LEC) monolayers. The3-D model faithfully resembles the intravasation of breast cancer emboli through the lymphatic vasculature. Western blot analysis, intracellular Ca2+determination, EROD assay and siRNA transfection revealed insights intomechanisms of intravasation as well as the anti-intravasative outcome offlavonoid action. Both flavonoids suppressed pro-intravasative trigger factors inMDA-MB231 breast cancer cells, specifically MMP1 expression and CYP1A1 activity. A pro-intravasative contribution of FAK expression in LECs was established as FAKsupported the retraction of the LEC monolayer upon contact with cancer cellsthereby enabling them to cross the endothelial barrier. As mechanistic basis,MMP1 caused the phosphorylation (activation) of FAK at Tyr397 in LECs. Apigeninand luteolin prevented MMP1-induced FAK activation, but not constitutive FAKphosphorylation. Luteolin, unlike apigenin, inhibited MMP1-induced Ca2+ release. Free intracellular Ca2+ is a central signal amplifier triggering LEC retractionthrough activation of the mobility protein MLC2, thereby enhancing intravasation.FAK activity and Ca2+ levels did not correlate. This implicates that thepro-intravasative contribution of FAK and of Ca2+ release in LECs was independentof each other and explains the better anti-intravasative effects of luteolin invitro. In specific formulations, flavonoid concentrations causing significantanti-intravasative effects, can certainly be achieved in vivo. As the therapeuticstrategy has to be based on permanent flavonoid treatment both the beneficial andadverse effects have to be investigated in future studies.DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00220 PMCID: PMC5861143PMID: 29593542 