Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interestmay be found at the end of this article.44. BMJ Open. 2018 Mar 27;8(3):e020313. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-020313.Lifestyle advice to cancer survivors: a qualitative study on the perspectives of health professionals.Koutoukidis DA(#)(1)(2), Lopes S(#)(1), Fisher A(1), Williams K(1), Croker H(1), Beeken RJ(1)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Behavioural Science and Health, University College London,London, UK.(2)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford,Oxford, UK.(3)Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.(#)Contributed equallyOBJECTIVES: Adoption of healthy lifestyle behaviours has shown promisingeffectiveness in reducing the high morbidity burden of cancer survivors. Healthprofessionals (HPs) are well suited to provide lifestyle advice but few survivorsreport receiving guidance from them. This study aimed to explore HPs' perspectiveof lifestyle advice (on healthy eating, physical activity, smoking, and alcohol) for cancer survivors.DESIGN: In-depth semistructured qualitative interviews were conducted bytelephone or face to face. Data were analysed using qualitative content analysis.SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Twenty-one UK HPs working in secondary care withbreast, prostate or colorectal cancer survivors were interviewed.RESULTS: The overarching theme was that HPs' desire to provide lifestyle advicewas not necessarily matched by knowledge and action. Three main themes wereidentified: (1) survivorship-centred barriers to provision, (2) HP-centredbarriers to provision, and (3) optimal delivery of lifestyle advice. Resultssuggested that HPs' perceptions of survivors' current status of practising healthbehaviours, their perceived socioeconomic barriers and ability to practise healthbehaviours, and HPs' fear for potential loss of connection with the patientinfluenced provision of lifestyle advice. Further factors included HPs' knowledgeof healthy lifestyle guidelines, feeling that they were not the 'right person' toprovide advice, and lack of time and resources. HPs stressed that the optimaldelivery of lifestyle advice should (1) be tailored to the individual anddelivered throughout the cancer journey, (2) be focused on small and achievablechanges framed as part of their treatment regimen and (3) be cost-effective forwide-scale implementation.CONCLUSIONS: Incorporation of the identified barriers when developing HP trainingprogrammes and lifestyle interventions could increase the probability ofsuccessful behavioural change, and thus improve outcomes for cancer survivors.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-020313 PMCID: PMC5875617PMID: 29593021 