164. Med Dosim. 2018 Summer;43(2):141-149. doi: 10.1016/j.meddos.2018.02.011. Epub2018 Mar 27.Oncentra brachytherapy planning system.Yang J(1).Author information: (1)Institute for Advanced Radiation Therapy, Monmouth Medical Center, RWJBarnabas Health, Long Branch, NJ, USA. Electronic address: jack.yang@rwjbh.org.In modern cancer management, treatment planning has progressed as a contemporary tool with all the advances in computing power in recent years. One of theadvanced planning tools uses 3-dimensional (3D) data sets for accurate dosedistributions in patient prescription. Among these planning processes,brachytherapy has been a very important part of a successful cancer managementprogram, offering clinical benefits with specific or combined treatments withexternal beam therapy. In this chapter, we mainly discussed the Elekta Oncentraplanning system, which is the main treatment planning tool for high-dose rate(HDR) modality in our facility and in many other facilities in the United States.HDR is a technically advanced form of brachytherapy; a high-intensity radiationsource (3.6 mm in length) is delivered with step motor in submillimeter precisionunder computer guidance directly into the tumor areas while minimizing injury to surrounding normal healthy tissue. Oncentra planning is the key component togenerate a deliverable brachytherapy procedure, which is executed on themicroSelectron V3 remote afterloader treatment system. Creating a highlyconformal plan can be a time-consuming task. The development of Oncentra software(version 4.5.3) offers a variety of useful tools that facilitate many of theclinical challenging tasks for planning, such as contouring and imagereconstruction, as well as rapid planning calculations with dose and dose volume histogram analysis. Oncentra Brachy module creates workflow and optimizes theplanning accuracy for wide varieties of clinical HDR treatments, such as skin,gynecologic (GYN), breast, prostate, and many other applications. The treatmentfile can also be transferred to the afterloader control station for speedydelivery. The design concept, calculation algorithms, and optimization modulespresented some key characteristics to plan and treat the patients effectively andaccurately. The dose distribution and accuracy of several clinical sample caseswere discussed to illustrate the effectiveness and clinical efficacy. TheAmerican Association of Physicists in Medicine brachytherapy reports of TG-43 andTG-186 were also described and compared in evaluations of fundamental calculationmethodologies.Copyright © 2018 American Association of Medical Dosimetrists. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.meddos.2018.02.011 PMID: 29598924 