26. Cancer Manag Res. 2018 Mar 20;10:545-555. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S142650. eCollection 2018.Mechanical ventilation promotes lung metastasis in experimental 4T1 breast cancerlung-metastasized models.Huang Y(#)(1)(2), Pan L(#)(3), Helou K(2), Xia Q(3), Parris TZ(2), Li H(3), XuB(3), Li H(3).Author information: (1)Division of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Department of Surgery, BoråsHospital, Borås.(2)Department of Oncology, Institute of Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska CancerCenter, Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, China-Japan FriendshipHospital, Beijing, People's Republic of China.(#)Contributed equallyBackground/purpose: The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis thatmechanical ventilation (MV) during cancer surgery induces lung stroma/tissuemilieu changes, creating a favorable microenvironment for postoperative lungmetastatic tumor establishment.Materials and methods: In Protocol A, female BALB/c mice were divided into an MV group and a control (no MV) group, both of which were anesthetized and subjected to intravenous injection of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labeled mouse mammarycarcinoma cell line (4T1) cells. After 24 h, the lung tissue was removed and the number of GFP-labeled 4T1 cells was calculated. In Protocol B, the clinicallyrelevant mouse model of spontaneous breast cancer lung metastasis was used withsurgical resection of the primary tumor to investigate the MV event that dictatespostoperative lung metastasis. Female BALB/c mice were inoculated in the mammary fat pad with 4T1 cells. After 14-d growth, mice were anesthetized and dividedinto an MV group and a control (no MV) group during surgical procedures(mastectomy). Metastatic tumor burden was assessed two weeks after mastectomy by both macroscopic metastatic nodule count, hematoxylin-eosin histology,immunohistochemistry for the macrophage marker (CD68), and epithelial celladhesion molecule (EpCAM).Results: MV was associated with a significant increase in the number ofcirculating breast tumor cells (GFP-labeled 4T1 cells) remaining in themicrovasculature of the lung (P<0.01). Immunohistochemical results showedincreased infiltration of CD68-positive macrophages within injured lungparenchyma and metastatic tumor as well as increased expression of EpCAM inmetastatic nodules. Postoperative metastases were more prevalent in themechanically ventilated mice group compared to the non-ventilated group (P<0.05).Conclusion: MV-induced lung metastasis occurs by attracting circulating tumorcells to the site of the lung injury and by accelerating the proliferation ofpreexisting micro-metastases in the lung. These observations indicate that themetastasis-enhancing effect of MV should be considered in general anesthesiaduring cancer surgery.DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S142650 PMCID: PMC5865578PMID: 29593433 