55. Pain Med. 2018 Mar 26. doi: 10.1093/pm/pny039. [Epub ahead of print]Cancer Pain Management Education Rectifies Patients' Misconceptions of CancerPain, Reduces Pain, and Improves Quality of Life.Koh SJ(1), Keam B(2), Hyun MK(3), Ju Seo J(4), Uk Park K(5), Oh SY(6), Ahn J(4), Lee JY(7), Kim J(8).Author information: (1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Ulsan University College of Medicineand Ulsan University Hospital, Ulsan, Republic of Korea.(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul,Republic of Korea.(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, College of Korean Medicine, DonggukUniversity, Gyeongju, Republic of Korea.(4)Department of Quality & Patient Safety, Cheil Orthopedic Hospital Seoul,Republic of Korea.(5)Department of Hematology/Oncology, Keimyung University Dongsan Medical Center,Daegu, Republic of Korea.(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Dong-A University Hospital, Busan, Republicof Korea.(7)National Evidence-based Healthcare Collaborating Agency, Seoul, Republic ofKorea.(8)College of Nursing, Gachon University, Incheon, Korea.Objectives: More than half of the patients have reported improper management ofbreakthrough cancer pain. Empirical evidence is lacking concerning theeffectiveness of cancer pain education on breakthrough pain control. This studyaimed to examine the effects of individual pain education on pain control, use ofshort-acting analgesics for breakthrough pain, quality of life outcomes, andrectification of patients' misconceptions regarding cancer pain.Design: A quasi-experimental design was used. In total, 176 (102 inpatients and74 outpatients) and 163 (93 inpatients and 70 outpatients) cancer patientscompleted questionnaires on pain intensity, quality of life, use of short-acting medication for breakthrough pain, and misconceptions about cancer pain and opioiduse before and immediately and/or seven days after individual pain education.Results: The mean age of the participants was 60.9 years (±11.2), and 56.3% were male. The most common cancers were lung cancer (17.0%), colon cancer (15.9%), andbreast cancer (12.5%). The subjects' reasons for attrition were conditionaldeterioration, death, or voluntary withdrawal (N = 13, 7.4%). Following theeducation, there was a significant reduction in overall pain intensity over24 hours (P < 0.001). The outpatients showed more use of short-acting analgesics for breakthrough pain. Sleep quality change was most significantly associatedwith intervention; other quality of life aspects (e.g., general feelings and lifeenjoyment) also improved. Pain education also significantly reducedmisconceptions regarding cancer pain management.Conclusions: The present educational intervention was effective in encouragingshort-acting analgesic use for breakthrough pain, improving quality of lifeoutcomes, and rectifying patients' misconceptions about analgesic use.DOI: 10.1093/pm/pny039 PMID: 29590446 