162. Phys Med. 2018 Apr;48:127-134. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.12.021. Epub 2018 Mar 26.Improvement of early detection of breast cancer through collaborativemulti-country efforts: Medical physics component.Mora P(1), Faulkner K(2), Mahmoud AM(3), Gershan V(4), Kausik A(5), Zdesar U(6), Brandan ME(7), Kurt S(8), Davidović J(9), Salama DH(10), Aribal E(11), OdioC(12), Chaturvedi AK(13), Sabih Z(14), Vujnović S(15), Paez D(16), Delis H(16).Author information: (1)Centro de Investigación en Ciencias Atómicas, Nucleares y Moleculares,Universidad de Costa Rica, Costa Rica. Electronic address:patricia.mora@ucr.ac.cr.(2)Hepscott Park, Morpeth, United Kingdom.(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Systems, Cairo University, Egypt.(4)Faculty of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Skopje, Macedonia.(5)Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, Delhi, India.(6)DORA Screening Programme, Ljubljana, Slovenia.(7)Instituto de Física, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, 04510 Ciudad de México, Mexico.(8)Memeder, Istanbul, Turkey.(9)University Clinical Centre of the Republic of Srpska, Department of MedicalPhysics and Radiation Protection, Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina.(10)National Center for Radiation Research and Technology, Egyptian Atomic EnergyAuthority, Egypt.(11)Acibadem University, Radiology Department, Altunizade Hospital, Breast HealthCenter, Istanbul Turkey.(12)Departamento de Radiología, Hospital Max Peralta, Costa Rica.(13)Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre, Delhi, India.(14)Multan Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Radiotherapy, Multan, Pakistan.(15)University Clinical Centre of the Republic of Srpska, Department of Clinical Radiology, Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina.(16)International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna, Austria.PURPOSE: The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) through a CoordinatedResearch Project on "Enhancing Capacity for Early Detection and Diagnosis ofBreast Cancer through Imaging", brought together a group of mammographyradiologists, medical physicists and radiographers; to investigate currentpractices and improve procedures for the early detection of breast cancer bystrengthening both the clinical and medical physics components. This paperaddresses the medical physics component.METHODS: The countries that participated in the CRP were Bosnia and Herzegovina, Costa Rica, Egypt, India, Kenya, the Frmr. Yug. Rep. of Macedonia, Mexico,Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines, Slovenia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom andZambia. Ten institutions participated using IAEA quality control protocols in 9digital and 3 analogue mammography equipment. A spreadsheet for data collectionwas generated and distributed. Evaluation of image quality was done using TOR MAXand DMAM2 Gold phantoms.RESULTS: QC results for analogue equipment showed satisfactory results. QC tests performed on digital systems showed that improvements needed to be implemented,especially in thickness accuracy, signal difference to noise ratio (SDNR) values for achievable levels, uniformity and modulation transfer function (MTF). Meanglandular dose (MGD) was below international recommended levels for patientradiation protection. Evaluation of image quality by phantoms also indicated the need for improvement.CONCLUSIONS: Common activities facilitated improvement in mammography practice,including training of medical physicists in QC programs and infrastructure wasimproved and strengthened; networking among medical physicists and radiologiststook place and was maintained over time. IAEA QC protocols provided a uniformedapproach to QC measurements.Copyright © 2018 Associazione Italiana di Fisica Medica. Published by ElsevierLtd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2017.12.021 PMID: 29599081 