185. J Registry Manag. 2017 Spring;44(1):17-29.Lung, Breast, and Prostate Cancer Patients with Unknown Ethnicity in USDepartment of Defense Cancer Registry Data: Comparisons to Patients with KnownEthnicity.Lin J, Kamamia C, Shao S, Brown D, Rockswold PD, Butts E, Shriver CD, Zhu K.INTRODUCTION: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the leading causes of cancerdeath for both men and women in the United States. Several factors can increaseone’s risk of CRC, including a personal or family history of CRC, a diagnosis or family history of a hereditary colon cancer syndrome, or a diagnosis of chronicinflammatory bowel disease. The purpose of this project was to create acolorectal cancer registry (Co-Care) for individuals with a personal or familyhistory of CRC, and those with disorders of the colon or rectum that areassociated with an increased risk for developing CRC. METHODS: To be eligible forthe registry, patients either had a personal or family history of CRC, adiagnosis or family history of Lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, ora diagnosis of Crohn’s colitis or ulcerative colitis with dysplasia. Participantswere recruited after seeing their gastroenterologist or genetic counselor, orafter undergoing a full or partial colectomy at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. Eligible patients who agreed to participate were interviewed by a member ofthe research staff and asked a wide range of questions pertaining to CRC risk.RESULTS: A total of 224 patients were enrolled in the registry. Participants are mostly white, born in the United States, and married, with a bachelor’s orgraduate degree, reporting an annual household income of $100,000 or more. Thelargest portion have a family history of CRC (27.2%), and almost half ofparticipants are of Jewish descent (46.2%) and have undergone full or partialcolectomy (48.2%). More than half of participants have neither received geneticcounseling (54.5%) nor undergone genetic testing (59.7%). Only 3.6% report thatthey currently smoke cigarettes, and 41.1% consume alcohol at least once perweek. Lastly, 18.3%, 10.3%, and 27.7% of participants report that they currently take aspirin, folic acid/folate pills or tablets, or calcium pills/tablets,respectively. CONCLUSIONS: This registry can improve our understanding of CRC andrelated diseases, and be used to design future interventions related to diseaserisk, prognosis, and prevention of CRC.PMID: 29595941  [Indexed for MEDLINE]