Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.182. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Mar 29;19(4). pii: E1019. doi: 10.3390/ijms19041019.EP4 as a Therapeutic Target for Aggressive Human Breast Cancer.Majumder M(1), Nandi P(2), Omar A(3), Ugwuagbo KC(4), Lala PK(5)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R7A6A9, Canada.majumderm@brandonu.ca.(2)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Schulich School of Medicine andDentistry, University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A5C1, Canada.pnandi@uwo.ca.(3)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R7A6A9, Canada.ismailao09@brandonu.ca.(4)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, MB R7A6A9, Canada.ugwuagkc97@brandonu.ca.(5)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Schulich School of Medicine andDentistry, University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A5C1, Canada.pklala@uwo.ca.(6)Department of Oncology, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Western Ontario, London, ON N6A5C1, Canada. pklala@uwo.ca.G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs, also called seven-transmembrane orheptahelical receptors) are a superfamily of cell surface receptor proteins that bind to many extracellular ligands and transmit signals to an intracellularguanine nucleotide-binding protein (G-protein). When a ligand binds, the receptoractivates the attached G-protein by causing the exchange ofGuanosine-5'-triphosphate (GTP) for guanosine diphosphate (GDP). They play amajor role in many physiological functions, as well as in the pathology of manydiseases, including cancer progression and metastasis. Only a few GPCR membershave been exploited as targets for developing drugs with therapeutic benefit incancer. Present review briefly summarizes the signaling pathways utilized by the EP (prostaglandin E receptor) family of GPCR, their physiological andpathological roles in carcinogenesis, with special emphasis on the roles of EP4in breast cancer progression. We make a case for EP4 as a promising newertherapeutic target for treating breast cancer. We show that an aberrantover-expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, which is an inflammation-associatedenzyme, occurring in 40-50% of breast cancer patients leads to tumor progression and metastasis due to multiple cellular events resulting from an increasedprostaglandin (PG) E2 production in the tumor milieu. They include inactivationof host anti-tumor immune cells, such as Natural Killer (NK) and T cells,increased immuno-suppressor function of tumor-associated macrophages, promotionof tumor cell migration, invasiveness and tumor-associated angiogenesis, due toupregulation of multiple angiogenic factors including Vascular Endothelial GrowthFactor (VEGF)-A, increased lymphangiogenesis (due to upregulation of VEGF-C/D),and a stimulation of stem-like cell (SLC) phenotype in cancer cells. All of theseevents were primarily mediated by activation of the Prostaglandin (PG) E receptorEP4 on tumor or host cells. We show that selective EP4 antagonists (EP4A) couldmitigate all of these events tested with cells in vitro as well as in vivo insyngeneic COX-2 expressing mammary cancer bearing mice or immune-deficient micebearing COX-2 over-expressing human breast cancer xenografts. We suggest thatEP4A can avoid thrombo-embolic side effects of long term use of COX-2 inhibitors by sparing cardio-protective roles of PGI2 via IP receptor activation or PGE2 viaEP3 receptor activation. Furthermore, we identified two COX-2/EP4 inducedoncogenic and SLC-stimulating microRNAs-miR526b and miR655, one of which (miR655)appears to be a potential blood biomarker in breast cancer patients formonitoring SLC-ablative therapies, such as with EP4A. We suggest that EP4A willlikely produce the highest benefit in aggressive breast cancers, such as COX-2expressing triple-negative breast cancers, when combined with other newer agents,such as inhibitors of programmed cell death (PD)-1 or PD-L1.DOI: 10.3390/ijms19041019 PMCID: PMC5979567PMID: 29596308 