22. Front Microbiol. 2018 Mar 13;9:278. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00278. eCollection2018.How to Control HTLV-1-Associated Diseases: Preventing de Novo Cellular Infection Using Antiviral Therapy.Pasquier A(1)(2)(3), Alais S(1)(2), Roux L(4), Thoulouze MI(5), Alvarez K(4),Journo C(1)(2), Dutartre H(1)(2), Mahieux R(1)(2).Author information: (1)International Center for Research in Infectiology, Retroviral OncogenesisLaboratory, INSERM U1111 - Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, CNRS, UMR5308, EcoleNormale Supérieure de Lyon, Université Lyon, Lyon, France.(2)Equipe Labellisée Ligue Nationale Contre le Cancer, Paris, France.(3)Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes, Paris, France.(4)CNRS UMR 7257, Architecture et Fonction des Macromolecules Biologiques,Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille, France.(5)"Biofilm and Viral Transmission" Team, Structural Virology Unit, Department ofVirology, CNRS UMR 3569, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.Five to ten million individuals are infected by Human T-cell Leukemia Virus type 1 (HTLV-1). HTLV-1 is transmitted through prolonged breast-feeding, by sexualcontacts and by transmission of infected T lymphocytes through blood transfusion.One to ten percent of infected carriers will develop a severe HTLV-1-associateddisease: Adult-T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL), or a neurological disorder named Tropical Spastic Paraparesis/HTLV-1 Associated Myelopathy (TSP/HAM). In vivo,HTLV-1 is mostly detected in CD4+ T-cells, and to a lesser extent in CD8+ T cellsand dendritic cells. There is a strong correlation between HTLV-1 proviral load(PVL) and clinical status of infected individuals. Thus, reducing PVL could bepart of a strategy to prevent or treat HTLV-1-associated diseases among carriers.Treatment of ATLL patients using conventional chemotherapy has very limitedbenefit. Some chronic and acute ATLL patients are, however, efficiently treatedwith a combination of interferon α and zidovudine (IFN-α/AZT), to which arsenictrioxide is added in some cases. On the other hand, no efficient treatment forTSP/HAM patients has been described yet. It is therefore crucial to developtherapies that could either prevent the occurrence of HTLV-1-associated diseases or at least block the evolution of the disease in the early stages. In vivo,reverse transcriptase (RT) activity is low in infected cells, which is correlatedwith a clonal mode of viral replication. This renders infected cells resistant tonucleoside RT inhibitors such as AZT. However, histone deacetylase inhibitors(HDACi) associated to AZT efficiently induces viral expression and prevent denovo cellular infection. In asymptomatic STLV-1 infected non-human primates,HDACi/AZT combination allows a strong decrease in the PVL. Unfortunately, reboundin the PVL occurs when the treatment is stopped, highlighting the need for betterantiviral compounds. Here, we review previously used strategies targeting HTLV-1 replication. We also tested a series of HIV-1 RT inhibitors in an in vitroanti-HTLV-1 screen, and report that bis-POM-PMEA (adefovir dipivoxil) andbis-POC-PMPA (tenofovir disoproxil) are much more efficient compared to AZT todecrease HTLV-1 cell-to-cell transmission in vitro. Our results suggest thatrevisiting already established antiviral drugs is an interesting approach todiscover new anti-HTLV-1 drugs.DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00278 PMCID: PMC5859376PMID: 29593659 