153. Anticancer Res. 2018 Apr;38(4):2127-2135.Isochlorogenic Acid C Reverses Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition viaDown-regulation of EGFR Pathway in MDA-MB-231 cells.Yu JK(1), Yue CH(1), Pan YR(2), Chiu YW(3), Liu JY(4)(5), Lin KI(6)(7), LeeCJ(8).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Tungs' Taichung MetroHarbor Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan,R.O.C.(2)Department of Medical Research, Tung's Taichung MetroHarbor Hospital,Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C.(3)Emergency Department and Center of Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, Tungs' Taichung Metro Harbor Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C.(4)Center for Molecular Medicine, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung,Taiwan, R.O.C.(5)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Sciences, China Medical University, Taichung,Taiwan, R.O.C.(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chang Bing Show Chwan MemorialHospital, Changhua, Taiwan, R.O.C. chiajenlee54@gmail.com kunidg107@gmail.com.(7)Department of Cosmetic Science, Providence University, Taichung, Taiwan,R.O.C.(8)Department of Medical Research, Tung's Taichung MetroHarbor Hospital,Taichung, Taiwan, R.O.C. chiajenlee54@gmail.com kunidg107@gmail.com.BACKGROUND/AIM: Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been suggested toplay an important role in survival, proliferation, migration, differentiation,and tumorigenesis of many cell types. Breast cancer patients with high EGFRexpression have a poor prognosis. In this study, we investigated the molecularmechanism of the inhibitory effect of isochlorogenic acid c (ICAC) extracted fromLonicera japonica on elevated EGFR levels of the triple-negative breast cancer(TNBC) cell line, MDA-MB-231.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cell viability and cell-cycle analysis were evaluated using 3-(4, 5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2, 5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT)assay and flow cytometry, respectively. The migration ability and invasiveness ofICAC-treated MDA-MB-231 were examined by migration and Matrigel invasion assay.The epithelial-mesenchymal-transition (EMT)-related protein expression wasexamined by western blotting and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).RESULTS: ICAC led to significant morphological changes and suppressed migrationand invasion capacities of highly metastatic MDA-MB-231 cells. Western blotanalysis for EGFR/EMT-associated proteins suggested that ICAC attenuated themesenchymal traits as observed by up-regulation of epithelial markers anddown-regulation of mesenchymal markers as well as decreased activities of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9).CONCLUSION: These results suggested that the inhibitory effects of ICAC againstEGFR-induced EMT and MDA-MB-231 cell invasion were dependent on the EGFR/phospholipase Cγ (PLCγ)/extracellular regulated protein kinase ½ (ERK½)/slugsignaling pathway. Therefore, the obtained results could provide us clues for thenext therapeutic strategy in the treatment of TNBC.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.12453 PMID: 29599331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]