184. Cancer Nurs. 2018 Mar 27. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000000584. [Epub ahead ofprint]Development and Feasibility of an Interactive Smartphone App for Early Assessmentand Management of Symptoms Following Pancreaticoduodenectomy.Gustavell T(1), Langius-Eklöf A, Wengström Y, Segersvärd R, Sundberg K.Author information: (1)Author Affiliations: Division of Nursing, Department of Neurobiology, CareSciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet (Mrs Gustavell and Drs Langius-Eklöf,Wengström, and Sundberg); Gastrocentrum (Mrs Gustavell, Dr Segersvärd) andRadiumhemmet, Breast and Sarcoma Unit (Dr Wengström), Karolinska UniversityHospital; and Division of Surgery, Department of Clinical Science, Interventionand Technology, Karolinska Institutet (Dr Segersvärd), Stockholm, Sweden.BACKGROUND: Patients who have undergone pancreaticoduodenectomy because ofpancreatic cancer experience distressing symptoms and unmet supportive care needsafter discharge. To meet these needs, we have developed a mobile health app(Interaktor) for daily assessment of symptoms and access to self-care advice thatincludes a risk assessment model for alerts with real-time interactions withprofessionals.OBJECTIVE: The study aim was to develop and test a version of the Interaktor app adapted for patients who have undergone pancreaticoduodenectomy.METHODS: The app was developed and tested for feasibility in 6 patients during 4 weeks. One nurse monitored and responded to alerts. Logged data from the app werecollected, and all participants were interviewed about their experiences.RESULTS: Adherence to reporting daily was 84%. Alerts were generated in 41% ofthe reports. The patients felt reassured and cared for and received support forsymptom management. The app was easy to use, had relevant content, and had fewtechnical problems, although suggestions for improvement were given.CONCLUSIONS: The daily reporting of symptoms and having access to a nurse in realtime in the case of an alarming symptom seem to enhance symptom management andrender a feeling of security in patients. Some modifications of the app areneeded before use in a larger sample.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Daily reporting of symptoms afterpancreaticoduodenectomy enhances symptom management, self-care, and participationwithout being a burden to patients, indicating that mobile health can be used in clinical practice by patients with poor prognosis who experience severe symptoms.DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000000584 PMID: 29596113 