171. Breast. 2018 Jun;39:46-52. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.03.008. Epub 2018 Mar 26.MicroRNA co-expression patterns unravel the relevance of extra cellular matrixand immunity in breast cancer.Dugo M(1), Huang X(2), Iorio MV(3), Cataldo A(4), Tagliabue E(5), Daidone MG(6), Wu J(7), Orlandi R(8).Author information: (1)Functional Genomic and Bioinformatics, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale deiTumori, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: matteo.dugo@istitutotumori.mi.it.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center andDepartment of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai,200032, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:drxiaoyanhuang@aliyun.com.(3)Start Up Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.Electronic address: marilena.iorio@istitutotumori.mi.it.(4)Start Up Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.Electronic address: alessandra.cataldo@istitutotumori.mi.it.(5)Molecular Targeting Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori,Milan, Italy. Electronic address: elda.tagliabue@istitutotumori.mi.it.(6)Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy. Electronic address:mariagrazia.daidone@istitutotumori.mi.it.(7)Department of Breast Surgery, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center andDepartment of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai,200032, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: wujiong1122@vip.sina.com.(8)Molecular Targeting Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori,Milan, Italy. Electronic address: rosaria.orlandi@istitutotumori.mi.it.BACKGROUND: Aberrant microRNA (miRNA) expression is associated with human tumors,including breast cancer (BC), and has diagnostic and therapeutic potential. BCtissue is characterized by distinctive miRNA signatures associated with cancerdevelopment or progression.METHODS: We explored miRNA profiles from BC tissues by unsupervised hierarchical clustering. Functional analysis was based on miRNA-mRNA data integration and GeneSet Enrichment Analysis.RESULTS: Partition of miRNA expression data from BC samples of Chinese Han andCaucasian subjects identified clusters of correlated miRNAs that were subjectedto a global and integrative analysis aimed at identifying novel associations withbiological and clinical value. Co-expression of miRNAs clustered in the samemodule was partially explained by co-transcription of the same genomic locus orinvolvement in similar biological functions. No significant associations werefound among miRNA clusters and clinical-pathological variables, except for ERstatus and immune infiltration estimated by CIBERSORT. A large number of miRNAclusters, instead, were significantly differentially expressed in PAM 50 andextracellular matrix (ECM) subgroups. Specifically, a new cluster includingseveral relatively new miRNAs was overexpressed in ECM3 tumors, characterized by increased epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). An integrative approach to extract meaningful relationships on miRNA/mRNA networks and predict thefunctional role of the miRNA clusters indicates that immune system, ECM,proliferation, transcription and DNA repair were the biological functions moretargeted by miRNAs aberrantly expressed in BC.CONCLUSIONS: We then identified novel miRNA patterns associated with BC molecularfeatures, and described a complex regulatory network where miRNAs belonging tothe same module cooperate in finely tuning gene expression.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.03.008 PMID: 29597130 