30. Niger J Clin Pract. 2018 Apr;21(4):436-442. doi: 10.4103/njcp.njcp_102_17.Risk factors for breast cancer among Indian women: A case-control study.Antony MP(1), Surakutty B(2), Vasu TA(3), Chisthi M(3).Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, Government Medical College, Ernakulam, Kerala, India.(2)Department of Radiodiagnosis, Government Medical College, Trivandrum, Kerala, India.(3)Department of General Surgery, Government Medical College, Trivandrum, Kerala,India.Background: Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among females all overthe world. The incidence of breast cancer is persistently on the rise due tourbanization and lifestyle changes. Although various risk factors have beensuggested for estimating the risk of developing breast cancer, most of these havebeen studied in the Western population. A better understanding of localcharacteristics of risk factors may help in devising locally effective preventionstrategies for breast cancer. The primary objective of the study was to study therisk factors for carcinoma breast among Indian women.Materials and Methods: This was a case-control study, conducted from January 2011to December 2012, at a tertiary level teaching institution. A total of 100patients of Indian origin, attending the General Surgery Department withcarcinoma breast during this period were the cases. Controls were the bloodrelatives of patients with other diagnosed malignancies.Results: The major risk factors for breast cancer are found to be age, diet,waist size, hip size, waist-hip ratio (WHR), body mass index, high-densitylipoprotein cholesterol, triglyceride, more than three pregnancies, number ofyears of menstruation, atypical hyperplasia in the previous biopsy, and historyof carcinoma in relatives.Conclusions: Waist size and WHR are the major risk factors for carcinoma ofbreast. Adequate exercise and weight control are the most effective lifestylechanges that can reduce the risk of developing breast cancer.DOI: 10.4103/njcp.njcp_102_17 PMID: 29607854 