104. Breast J. 2018 Mar 30. doi: 10.1111/tbj.13032. [Epub ahead of print]Predicting neo-adjuvant chemotherapy response and progression-free survival oflocally advanced breast cancer using textural features of intratumoralheterogeneity on F-18 FDG PET/CT and diffusion-weighted MR imaging.Yoon HJ(1), Kim Y(2), Chung J(3), Kim BS(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea.(2)Clinical Research Institute, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea.(3)Department of Radiology, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea.Predicting response to neo-adjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) and survival in locallyadvanced breast cancer (LABC) is important. This study investigated theprognostic value of tumor heterogeneity evaluated with textural analysis through F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) anddiffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). We enrolled 83 patients with LABC who hadcompleted NAC and curative surgery. Tumor texture indices from pretreatment FDGPET and DWI were extracted from histogram analysis and 7 different parentmatrices: co-occurrence matrix, the voxel-alignment matrix, neighborhoodintensity difference matrix, intensity size-zone matrix (ISZM), normalizedgray-level co-occurrence matrix (NGLCM), neighboring gray-level dependence matrix(NGLDM), and texture spectrum matrix. The predictive values of textural features were tested regarding both pathologic NAC response and progression-free survival.Among 83 patients, 46 were pathologic responders, while 37 were nonresponders.The PET texture indices from 7 parent matrices, DWI texture indices fromhistogram, and 1 parent matrix (NGLCM) showed significant differences accordingto NAC response. On multivariable analysis, number nonuniformity of PET extractedfrom the NGLDM was an independent predictor of pathologic response (P = .009).During a median follow-up period of 17.3 months, 14 patients experiencedrecurrence. High-intensity zone emphasis (HIZE) and high-intensity short-zoneemphasis (HISZE) from PET extracted from ISZM were significant texturalpredictors (P = .011 and P = .033). On Cox regression analysis, only HIZE was asignificant predictor of recurrence (P = .027), while HISZE showed borderlinesignificance (P = .107). Tumor texture indices are useful for NAC responseprediction in LABC. Moreover, PET texture indices can help to predict diseaserecurrence.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1111/tbj.13032 PMID: 29602210 