60. Med Sci Monit. 2018 Apr 1;24:1912-1923.Triple Negative Breast Cancer Depends on Sphingosine Kinase 1(SphK1)/Sphingosine-1-Phosphate (S1P)/Sphingosine 1-Phosphate Receptor 3(S1PR3)/Notch Signaling for Metastasis.Wang S(1), Liang Y(1), Chang W(2), Hu B(1), Zhang Y(1).Author information: (1)Breast Disease Center, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China (mainland).(2)Outpatient Department of Stomatology, Shan Xi Da Yi Hospital, Taiyuan, Shanxi,China (mainland).BACKGROUND Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) has a more aggressive recurrence.Previous reports have demonstrated that sphingosine kinase 1 (SphK1) is a crucialregulator of breast cancer progression. However, the correlation of SphK1 withclinical prognosis has been poorly investigated. Thus, we aimed to elaborate the role of SphK1 in TNBC metastasis. MATERIAL AND METHODS We first determined thelevel of SphK1 in breast cancer tissue samples and breast cancer cells.Furthermore, the expression of HER2 and phosphor-SphK1 (pSphK1) in human breastcancer tissue samples was determined by immunohistochemical analysis.Associations between SphK1 and clinical parameters of tumors were analyzed. Theactivity of SphK1 was measured by fluorescence analysis. Extracellularsphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) was detected using an ELISA kit. Associationsbetween SphK1 and metastasis potential were analyzed by Transwell assay. RESULTS Levels of SphK1 in TNBC patients were significantly higher than levels in otherpatients with other breast tumors. The expression of SphK1 was positivelycorrelated with poor overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS),as well as poor response to 5-FU and doxorubicin. The depression of SphK1 thuscould repress the Notch signaling pathway, reduce migration, and invasion of TNBCcells in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, silencing of SphK1 by Ad-SPHK1-siRNA or SphK1 inhibitor PF543 sensitized TNBCs to 5-FU and doxorubicin. Our results also indicated that SphK1 inhibition could effectively counteracts tumors metastasisvia Notch signaling pathways, indicating a potentially anti-tumor strategy inTNBC. CONCLUSIONS We found that elevated levels of pSphK1 were positivecorrelation with high expression of S1P, which in turn promoted metastasis ofTNBC through S1P/S1PR3/Notch signaling pathway.PMCID: PMC5894569PMID: 29605826 