112. PLoS One. 2018 Mar 30;13(3):e0194712. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194712.eCollection 2018.Internalization of subcellular-scale microfabricated chips by healthy and cancer cells.Parizi KB(1), Akin D(2), Wong HP(1).Author information: (1)Department of Electrical Engineering, School of Engineering, StanfordUniversity, Stanford, California, United States of America.(2)Center for Cancer Nanotechnology Excellence, Department of Radiology, Schoolof Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, California, United States of America.Continuous monitoring of physiological parameters inside a living cell will lead to major advances in our understanding of biology and complex diseases, such ascancer. It also enables the development of new medical diagnostics andtherapeutics. Progress in nanofabrication and wireless communication has openedup the potential of making a wireless chip small enough that it can be whollyinserted into a living cell. To investigate how such chips could be internalized into various types of living single cells and how this process might affectcells' physiology, we designed and fabricated a series of multilayeredmicron-scale tag structures with different sizes as potential RFID (RadioFrequency IDentification) cell trackers. While the present structures are teststructures that do not resonate, the tags that do resonate have similar structurefrom device fabrication, material properties, and device size point of view. The structures are in four different sizes, the largest with the lateral dimension of9 μm × 21 μm. The thickness for these structures is kept constant at 1.5 μm. Wedemonstrate successful delivery of our fabricated chips into various types ofliving cells, such as melanoma skin cancer, breast cancer, colon cancer andhealthy/normal fibroblast skin cells. To our surprise, we observed a remarkableinternalization rate difference between each cell type; the uptake rate wasfaster for more aggressive cancer cells than the normal/healthy cells. Cellviability before and after tag cellular internalization and persistence of theinternalized tags have also been recorded over the course of five days ofincubation. These results establish the foundations of the possibility of longterm, wireless, intracellular physiological signal monitoring.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0194712 PMCID: PMC5877870PMID: 29601607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]