130. Front Public Health. 2018 Feb 28;6:30. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00030. eCollection2018.Reflections of Homeless Women and Women with Mental Health Challenges on Breastand Cervical Cancer Screening Decisions: Power, Trust, and Communication withCare Providers.Moravac CC(1).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Imaging, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, Canada.This study conducted in Toronto, Canada, explored the perceptions of women livingin homeless shelters and women with severe mental health challenges about thefactors influencing their decision-making processes regarding breast and cervicalcancer screening. Twenty-six in-depth qualitative interviews were conducted. The objectives of this research were (i) to provide new insights about women'sdecision-making processes, (ii) to describe the barriers to and facilitators for breast and cervical cancer screening, and (iii) to offer recommendations forfuture outreach, education, and screening initiatives developed specifically for under/never-screened marginalized women living in urban centers. This exploratorystudy utilized thematic analysis to broaden our understanding about women'sdecision-making processes. A constructed ontology was used in an attempt tounderstand and describe participants' constructed realities. The epistemological framework was subjective and reflected co-created knowledge. The approach washegemonic, values-based, and context-specific. The aim of the analysis was tofocus on meanings and actions with a broader view to identify the interplaybetween participants' narratives and social structures, medical praxis, andpolicy implications. Results from 26 qualitative interviews conducted in2013-2014 provided insights on both positive and negative prior cancer screening experiences, the role of power and trust in women's decision-making, and areasfor improvement in health care provider/patient interactions. Outcomes of thisinvestigation contribute to the future development of appropriately designedintervention programs for marginalized women, as well as for sensitivity trainingfor health care providers. Tailored and effective health promotion strategiesleading to life-long cancer screening behaviors among marginalized women mayimprove clinical outcomes, decrease treatment costs, and save lives.DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00030 PMCID: PMC5863503PMID: 29600243 