56. Animal. 2018 Aug;12(8):1709-1721. doi: 10.1017/S1751731118000642. Epub 2018 Apr2.Review: Dairy foods, red meat and processed meat in the diet: implications forhealth at key life stages.Givens DI(1).Author information: (1)Institute for Food, Nutrition and Health,University of Reading,Reading RG66AR,UK.Social and health care provision have led to substantial increases in lifeexpectancy. In the UK this has become higher than 80 years with an even greaterproportional increase in those aged 85 years and over. The different life stages give rise to important nutritional challenges and recent reductions in milkconsumption have led to sub-optimal intakes of calcium by teenage females inparticular when bone growth is at its maximum and of iodine during pregnancyneeded to ensure that supply/production of thyroid hormones to the foetus isadequate. Many young and pre-menopausal women have considerably sub-optimalintakes of iron which are likely to be associated with reduced consumption of redmeat. A clear concern is the low intakes of calcium especially as a highproportion of the population is of sub-optimal vitamin D status. This may alreadyhave had serious consequences in terms of bone development which may not beapparent until later life, particularly in post-menopausal women. This reviewaims to examine the role of dairy foods and red meat at key life stages in terms of their ability to reduce or increase chronic disease risk. It is clear thatmilk and dairy foods are key sources of important nutrients such as calcium andiodine and the concentration of some key nutrients, notably iodine can beinfluenced by the method of primary milk production, in particular, the iodineintake of the dairy cow. Recent meta-analyses show no evidence of increased risk of cardiovascular diseases from high consumption of milk and dairy foods butincreasing evidence of a reduction in the risk of type 2 diabetes associated withfermented dairy foods, yoghurt in particular. The recently updated reports fromthe World Cancer Research Fund International/American Institute for CancerResearch on the associations between dairy foods, red meat and processed meat andvarious cancers provide further confidence that total dairy products and milk,are associated with a reduced risk of colorectal cancer and high intakes ofmilk/dairy are not associated with increased risk of breast cancer. Earlierevidence of a significant increase in the risk of colorectal cancer fromconsumption of red and particularly processed meat has been reinforced by theinclusion of more recent studies. It is essential that nutrition andhealth-related functionality of foods are included in evaluations of sustainable food production.DOI: 10.1017/S1751731118000642 PMID: 29606182 