Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.48. Int J Nanomedicine. 2018 Mar 22;13:1831-1840. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S153795.eCollection 2018.Trastuzumab- and Fab' fragment-modified curcumin PEG-PLGA nanoparticles:preparation and evaluation in vitro and in vivo.Duan D(#)(1), Wang A(#)(1), Ni L(2), Zhang L(1), Yan X(1), Jiang Y(1), Mu H(1),Wu Z(1), Sun K(1), Li Y(1)(2).Author information: (1)School of Pharmacy, Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Drug Delivery System and Biotech Drugs in Universities of Shandong, Key Laboratory of MolecularPharmacology and Drug Evaluation (Yantai University), Ministry of Education,Yantai University, Yantai, People's Republic of China.(2)State Key Laboratory of Long Acting and Targeting Drug Delivery System,Shandong Luye Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Yantai, People's Republic of China.(#)Contributed equallyIntroduction: Nanoparticles (NPs) modified with bio-ligands represent a promisingstrategy for active targeted drug delivery to tumour. However, many targetedligands, such as trastuzumab (TMAB), have high molecular weight, limiting theirapplication for targeting. In this study, we prepared Fab' (antigen-bindingfragments cut from TMAB)-modified NPs (Fab'-NPs) with curcumin (Cur) as a modeldrug for more effective targeting of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(HER2/ErbB2/Neu), which is overexpressed on breast cancer cells.Material and methods: The release kinetics was conducted by dialysis bags. Theability to kill HER2-overexpressing BT-474 cells of Fab'-Cur-NPs compared withTMAB-Cur-NPs was conducted by cytotoxicity experiments. Qualitative andquantitative cell uptake studies using coumarin-6 (fluorescent probe)-loaded NPs were performed by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. Pharmacokineticsand biodistribution experiments in vivo were assessed by liquidchromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS).Results: The release kinetics showed that both Fab'-Cur-NPs and TMAB-Cur-NPsprovided continuous, slow release of curcumin for 72 h, with no significantdifference. In vitro cytotoxicity experiments showed that Fab'-Cur-NPs manifestedprominent ability to kill HER2-overexpressing BT-474 cells compared withTMAB-Cur-NPs. Qualitative and quantitative cell uptake studies indicated that theaccumulation of Fab'-NPs was greater than that of TMAB-NPs in BT-474 (HER2+)cells; However, there was no significant difference in MDA-MB-231 (HER2-) cells. Pharmacokinetics and biodistribution experiments in vivo demonstrated that thehalf-life (t1/2) and area under the blood concentration-time curve (AUC0-t) ofFab'-Cur-NPs increased 5.30-fold and 1.76-fold relative to those of TMAB-Cur-NPs,respectively. Furthermore, the tumor accumulation of Fab'-Cur-NPs was higher thanthat of TMAB-Cur-NPs.Conclusion: Fab' fragment has greater capacity than the intact antibody toachieve tumor targeting through NP-based delivery.DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S153795 PMCID: PMC5868600PMID: 29606874  [Indexed for MEDLINE]