67. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2018 Mar 27. pii: S0301-2115(18)30147-7. doi:10.1016/j.ejogrb.2018.03.049. [Epub ahead of print]Breast reconstruction after breast conservation therapy for breast cancer.Thiessen FEF(1), Tjalma WAA(2), Tondu T(3).Author information: (1)Multidisciplinary Breast Clinic-Unit of Gynecologic Oncology, AntwerpUniversity Hospital, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; Plastic SurgeryUnit, Antwerp University Hospital, Antwerp, Belgium. Electronic address:Filip.Thiessen@clinic12b.be.(2)Multidisciplinary Breast Clinic-Unit of Gynecologic Oncology, AntwerpUniversity Hospital, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; Department ofObstetrics and Gynecology, Antwerp University Hospital, University of Antwerp,Antwerp, Belgium.(3)Multidisciplinary Breast Clinic-Unit of Gynecologic Oncology, AntwerpUniversity Hospital, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; Plastic SurgeryUnit, Antwerp University Hospital, Antwerp, Belgium.Conservative breast surgery followed by irradiation, often referred to as Breast conserving therapy (BCT), has replaced modified radical mastectomy for thetreatment of early stage invasive breast cancer and ductal carcinoma in situ(DCIS). About 10% to 40% of the patients treated with BCT have poor cosmeticoutcome results. Small tumours in large breasts can be successfully treated bylumpectomy and radiotherapy, with good cosmetic outcome. However when the tumour breast ratio is higher, the cosmetic outcome can be very disappointing. Asurgical conflict arises between optimal oncologic resection and the desire tospare as much tissue as possible to minimize the risk of deformities. In case of a small defect lipofilling can be performed. This technique transplants fatgrafts from a donor site to the defect in the breast. In case of larger defectsthere is the option of oncoplastic surgery. Oncoplastic techniques combine theoptimal oncological resection with an adequate reconstruction for optimalcosmetic outcome. Oncoplastic techniques allow the breast surgeon to perform atumour resection with adequate margins and the plastic surgeon will reconstructthe defect during the same procedure for optimal cosmetic outcome. The use ofoncoplastic techniques to reconstruct defects of partial mastectomies (BCT) canbe immediate, delayed or immediate delayed. Current breast cancer treatment leadsto long-term surivival. It it there for important not only to survive but alsolife. Therefore the quality of life and good cosmetic outcome is mandatory after breast cancer treatment. Oncoplastic surgery is based on two techniques: volumedisplacement and volume replacement. The volume displacement techniques use(dermo)glandular flaps of the breast to fill the resection defect. Volumedisplacement techniques ideally work when the tumour resection can beincorporated in a breast reduction pattern. A similar technique is used on thecontralateral breast to match size and shape. The volume replacement techniquesuse autologous non-breast tissues to compensate the volume loss after tumourresection. Volume replacement techniques are used when a large resection volumeis needed in a small breast. Depending on the location and size of the defectmany different flaps can be used for partial breast reconstruction.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2018.03.049 PMID: 29605247 