52. Stem Cell Reports. 2018 May 8;10(5):1596-1609. doi: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2018.03.001.Epub 2018 Mar 29.Heterogeneity of Human Breast Stem and Progenitor Cells as Revealedby Transcriptional Profiling.Colacino JA(1), Azizi E(2), Brooks MD(2), Harouaka R(2), Fouladdel S(2),McDermott SP(2), Lee M(3), Hill D(3), Madden J(4), Boerner J(4), Cote ML(5),Sartor MA(6), Rozek LS(7), Wicha MS(8).Author information: (1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, University of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Department of Nutritional Sciences, Universityof Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Comprehensive CancerCenter, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. Electronic address:colacino@umich.edu.(2)Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, AnnArbor, MI, USA.(3)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, AnnArbor, MI, USA.(4)Department of Oncology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit,MI, USA.(5)Department of Oncology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit,MI, USA; Population Sciences and Health Disparities Program, Karmanos CancerInstitute, Detroit, MI, USA.(6)Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;Department of Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of MichiganMedical School, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(7)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, University of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Comprehensive Cancer Center, University ofMichigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(8)Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA;Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, AnnArbor, MI, USA. Electronic address: mwicha@med.umich.edu.During development, the mammary gland undergoes extensive remodeling driven bystem cells. Breast cancers are also hierarchically organized and driven by cancerstem cells characterized by CD44+CD24low/- or aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH)expression. These markers identify mesenchymal and epithelial populations bothcapable of tumor initiation. Less is known about these populations innon-cancerous mammary glands. From RNA sequencing, ALDH+ and ALDH-CD44+CD24-human mammary cells have epithelial-like and mesenchymal-like characteristics,respectively, with some co-expressing ALDH+ and CD44+CD24- by flow cytometry. At the single-cell level, these cells have the greatest mammosphere-forming capacityand express high levels of stemness and epithelial-to-mesenchymaltransition-associated genes including ID1, SOX2, TWIST1, and ZEB2. We furtheridentify single ALDH+ cells with a hybrid epithelial/mesenchymal phenotype thatexpress genes associated with aggressive triple-negative breast cancers. Theseresults highlight single-cell analyses to characterize tissue heterogeneity, evenin marker-enriched populations, and identify genes and pathways that define this heterogeneity.Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2018.03.001 PMCID: PMC5995162PMID: 29606612 