81. J Appl Clin Med Phys. 2018 May;19(3):205-214. doi: 10.1002/acm2.12320. Epub 2018 Mar 30.Modeling of the metallic port in breast tissue expanders for photon radiotherapy.Yoon J(1), Xie Y(1), Heins D(1), Zhang R(1)(2).Author information: (1)Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.(2)Mary Bird Perkins Cancer Center, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.The purpose of this study was to model the metallic port in breast tissueexpanders and to improve the accuracy of dose calculations in a commercial photontreatment planning system (TPS). The density of the model was determined bycomparing TPS calculations and ion chamber (IC) measurements. The model wasfurther validated and compared with two widely used clinical models by using asimplified anthropomorphic phantom and thermoluminescent dosimeters (TLD)measurements. Dose perturbations and target coverage for a single postmastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT) patient were also evaluated. The dimensions of the metallicport model were determined to be 1.75 cm in diameter and 5 mm in thickness. Thedensity of the port was adjusted to be 7.5 g/cm3 which minimized the differences between IC measurements and TPS calculations. Using the simplifiedanthropomorphic phantom, we found the TPS calculated point doses based on the newmodel were in agreement with TLD measurements within 5.0% and were more accurate than doses calculated based on the clinical models. Based on the photon treatmentplans for a real patient, we found that the metallic port has a negligibledosimetric impact on chest wall, while the port introduced significant doseshadow in skin area. The current clinical port models either overestimate orunderestimate the attenuation from the metallic port, and the dose perturbationdepends on the plan and the model in a complex way. TPS calculations based on ourmodel of the metallic port showed good agreement with measurements for all cases.This new model could improve the accuracy of dose calculations for PMRT patients who have temporary tissue expanders implanted during radiotherapy and couldpotentially reduce the risk of complications after the treatment.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics published byWiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Association of Physicists inMedicine.DOI: 10.1002/acm2.12320 PMCID: PMC5978546PMID: 29603586 