7. BMC Cancer. 2018 Apr 2;18(1):362. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4235-7.A study on volatile organic compounds emitted by in-vitro lung cancer culturedcells using gas sensor array and SPME-GCMS.Thriumani R(1), Zakaria A(2), Hashim YZH(3)(4), Jeffree AI(5), Helmy KM(6),Kamarudin LM(5), Omar MI(5), Shakaff AYM(5), Adom AH(5), Persaud KC(7).Author information: (1)Centre of Excellence for Advanced Sensor Technology, Universiti MalaysiaPerlis, Arau, Perlis, Malaysia. thriumanireena@yahoo.com.(2)Centre of Excellence for Advanced Sensor Technology, Universiti MalaysiaPerlis, Arau, Perlis, Malaysia. ammarzakaria@unimap.edu.my.(3)Cell and Tissue Engineering Lab (CTEL), Department of BiotechnologyEngineering, Kulliyyah of Engineering, International Islamic University Malaysia (IIUM), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.(4)International Institute for Halal Research and Training (INHART),International Islamic University Malaysia (IIUM), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.(5)Centre of Excellence for Advanced Sensor Technology, Universiti MalaysiaPerlis, Arau, Perlis, Malaysia.(6)Department of Respiratory, Hospital Tuanku Fauziah, Jalan Kolam, Kangar,Perlis, Malaysia.(7)School of Chemical Engineering and Analytical Science, University ofManchester, Oxford Road, Manchester, United Kingdom.BACKGROUND: Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted from exhaled breath fromhuman bodies have been proven to be a useful source of information for early lungcancer diagnosis. To date, there are still arguable information on the productionand origin of significant VOCs of cancer cells. Thus, this study aims to conduct in-vitro experiments involving related cell lines to verify the capability ofVOCs in providing information of the cells.METHOD: The performances of e-nose technology with different statistical methods to determine the best classifier were conducted and discussed. The gas sensorstudy has been complemented using solid phase micro-extraction-gas chromatographymass spectrometry. For this purpose, the lung cancer cells (A549 and Calu-3) and control cell lines, breast cancer cell (MCF7) and non-cancerous lung cell(WI38VA13) were cultured in growth medium.RESULTS: This study successfully provided a list of possible volatile organiccompounds that can be specific biomarkers for lung cancer, even at the 24th hour of cell growth. Also, the Linear Discriminant Analysis-based One versusAll-Support Vector Machine classifier, is able to produce high performance indistinguishing lung cancer from breast cancer cells and normal lung cells.CONCLUSION: The findings in this work conclude that the specific VOC releasedfrom the cancer cells can act as the odour signature and potentially to be usedas non-invasive screening of lung cancer using gas array sensor devices.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4235-7 PMCID: PMC5879746PMID: 29609557 