92. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2018 Mar 31. doi: 10.1007/5584_2018_192. [Epub ahead of print]Effects of Breast and Prostate Cancer Metastases on Lumbar Spine Biomechanics:Rapid In Silico Evaluation.Lorkowski J(1)(2), Grzegorowska O(3), Kozień MS(4), Kotela I(5).Author information: (1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Central Clinical Hospital ofMinistry of Interior, Warsaw, Poland. jacek.lorkowski@gmail.com.(2)Health Rehabilitation Center, Cracow, Poland. jacek.lorkowski@gmail.com.(3)Health Rehabilitation Center, Cracow, Poland.(4)Department of Material Systems Dynamics, Faculty of Mechanical Engineering,Institute of Applied Mechanics, Cracow University of Technology, Cracow, Poland.(5)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Central Clinical Hospital ofMinistry of Interior, Warsaw, Poland.Metastases to distant organs are a frequent occurrence in cancer diseases. Theskeletal system, especially the spine, is one such organ. The objective of thisstudy was to apply a numerical modeling, using a finite element method (FEM), forthe evaluation of deformation and stress in lumbar spine in bone metastases tothe spine. We investigated 20 patients (10 women and 10 men) aged 38-81 years. Inwomen, osteolytic lesions in lumbar spine accompanied breast cancer, in men itwas prostate cancer. Geometry of FEM models were built based on CT scans ofmetastatic lumbar spine. We made the models for osteolytic metastases,osteosclerotic metastases, and metastases after surgery. Images were compared. Wefound a considerable concentration of strain, especially located in the posteriorpart of the vertebral body. In osteolytic lesions, the strain was located belowthe vertebral body with metastases. In osteosclerotic lesions, the strain waslocated in the anterior and posterior parts in and below the vertebral body with metastases. Surgery abolished the pathological strain. We conclude thatmetastases to the lumbar spine introduce a pathological strain on the lumbarbody. The immobilization of the vertebral body around fractures abolished thestrain.DOI: 10.1007/5584_2018_192 PMID: 29603079 