94. Pharm Res. 2018 Mar 30;35(6):112. doi: 10.1007/s11095-018-2393-6.Effect of Chemical Binding of Doxorubicin Hydrochloride to Gold Nanoparticles,Versus Electrostatic Adsorption, on the In Vitro Drug Release and Cytotoxicity toBreast Cancer Cells.Zayed GM(1)(2), Kamal I(3), Abdelhafez WA(4), M Alsharif F(4), Amin MA(5),Shaykoon MSA(6), Sarhan HA(7), Abdelsalam AM(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy,Al-Azhar University, Assiut, Egypt. gamalzayed@hotmail.com.(2)Al-Azhar Centre of Nanosceinecs and Applications (ACNA), Assiut, Egypt.gamalzayed@hotmail.com.(3)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, PortSaid University, Port Fouad, Egypt.(4)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy,Al-Azhar University, Assiut, Egypt.(5)Department of Pharmaceutics, Qassim University, Qassim, Kingdom of SaudiArabia.(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Al-Azhar University, Assiut, Egypt.(7)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia University, Minia,Egypt.PURPOSE: The selective delivery of chemotherapeutic agent to the affected area ismainly dependent on the mode of drug loading within the delivery system. Thisstudy aims to compare the physical method to the chemical method on theefficiency of loading DOX.HCl to GNPs and the specific release of the loaded drugat certain tissue.METHOD: Bifunctional polyethylene glycol with two different functionalities, the alkanethiol and the carboxyl group terminals, was synthesized. Then, DOX·HCl was covalently linked via hydrazone bond, a pH sensitive bond, to the carboxylfunctional group and the produced polymer was used to prepare drug functionalizednanoparticles. Another group of GNPs was coated with carboxyl containing polymer;loading the drug into this system by the means of electrostatic adsorption.Finally, the prepared system were characterized with respect to size, shape anddrug release in acetate buffer pH 5 and PBS pH 7.4 Also, the effect of DOX.HClloaded systems on cell viability was assessed using MCF-7 breast cancer cellline.RESULTS: The prepared nanoparticles were spherical in shape, small in size andmonodisperse. The release rate of the chemically bound drug in the acidic pH was higher than the electrostatically adsorbed one. Moreover, both systems showlittle release at pH 7.4. Finally, cytotoxicity profiles against human breastadenocarcinoma cell line (MCF-7) exhibited greater cytotoxicity of the chemicallybound drug over the electrostatically adsorbed one.CONCLUSION: Chemical binding of DOX·HCl to the carboxyl group of PEG coating GNPsselectively delivers high amount of drug to tumour-affected tissue which leads toreducing the unwanted effects of the drug in the non-affected ones.DOI: 10.1007/s11095-018-2393-6 PMID: 29603025 