28. Histol Histopathol. 2018 Apr 2:11987. doi: 10.14670/HH-11-987. [Epub ahead ofprint]Expression of EMT inducers integrin-linked kinase (ILK) and ZEB1 in phyllodesbreast tumors is associated with aggressive phenotype.Akrida I(1), Nikou S(1), Gyftopoulos K(1), Argentou M(2), Kounelis S(3), ZolotaV(4), Bravou V(5), Papadaki H(6).Author information: (1)Department of Anatomy-Histology-Embryology, University of Patras MedicalSchool, Patras, Greece.(2)Department of Surgery, University Hospital of Patras, Rion Patras, Greece.(3)Department of Pathology, General Hospital "Elena Venizelou", Athens, Greece.(4)Department of Pathology, University of Patras Medical School, Patras, Greece.(5)Department of Anatomy-Histology-Embryology, University of Patras MedicalSchool, Patras, Greece. vibra@upatras.gr.(6)Department of Anatomy-Histology-Embryology, University of Patras MedicalSchool, Patras, Greece. epetrou@upatras.gr.Phyllodes tumors (PTs) of the breast constitute an uncommon group of mammaryﬁbroepithelial lesions with ambiguous biologic behavior. Recent evidence suggeststhat epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT), a driving force of cancerprogression is implicated in PTs pathogenesis. Integrin-linked kinase (ILK), afocal adhesion kinase, has been implicated in cancer and EMT and represents anovel cancer therapeutic target. In this study, we aimed to investigate ILK andEMT markers expression in phyllodes breast tumors in relation to tumor grade.Expression of ILK and EMT markers E-cadherin, β-catenin, Ν-cadherin, vimentin,Snail, ZEB1 and Twist was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 96 human phyllodes breast tumors (48 benign, 27 borderline, 21 malignant). Cytoplasmic and nuclear immunopositivity of ILK were observed inboth the epithelial and the stromal component of phyllodes breast tumors and weresignificantly higher with increasing tumor grade. An EMT-related expressionprofile consisting of decreased membranous and increased nuclear/cytoplasmicimmunoreactivity of E-cadherin and β-catenin and increased expression ofN-cadherin, vimentin, Snail, ZEB1 and Twist was observed in tumor epithelial and stromal component and was significantly associated with malignant phyllodesbreast tumor histopathology. Interestingly, there was a significant correlationof ILK expression with all of the EMT markers examined. Our results suggest that EMT significantly contributes to phyllodes tumor pathogenesis and originallyimplicate ILK and ZEB1 in phyllodes tumors malignant phenotype.DOI: 10.14670/HH-11-987 PMID: 29608014 