Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this article and the planningcommittee members and staff have no relevant financial relationships withcommercial interests to disclose.126. J Cell Biochem. 2018 Jul;119(7):5996-6007. doi: 10.1002/jcb.26796. Epub 2018 Mar 30.Phytosomal-curcumin antagonizes cell growth and migration, induced by thrombinthrough AMP-Kinase in breast cancer.Hashemzehi M(1), Behnam-Rassouli R(2)(3), Hassanian SM(3)(4)(5), Moradi-BinabajM(4), Moradi-Marjaneh R(1), Rahmani F(4), Fiuji H(3), Jamili M(4), MirahmadiM(6), Boromand N(4), Piran M(7), Jafari M(7), Sahebkar A(8), Avan A(3)(9)(10),Khazaei M(1).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physiology, Mashhad University of MedicalSciences, Mashhad, Iran.(2)Department of Biology, Tehran North Branch, Islamic Azad University, Tehran,Iran.(3)Metabolic syndrome Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,Mashhad, Iran.(4)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medical Biochemistry, Mashhad University ofMedical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(5)Microanatomy Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad,Iran.(6)Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine Research Department, Academic Center forEducation, Culture and Research (ACECR), Mashhad Branch, Mashhad, Iran.(7)Drug Design and Bioinformatics Unit, Medical Biotechnology Department,Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.(8)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medical Biotechnology, Mashhad Universityof Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(9)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Modern Sciences and Technologies, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(10)Cancer Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad,Iran.Here we explored the antitumor-activity of novel-formulated-form of curcumin(phytosomal-encapsulated-curcumin) or in combination with 5-FU in breast cancer. The antiproliferative activity was assessed in 2D and 3-dimensionalcell-culture-model. The migratory-behaviors of the cells were determined bymigration assay. The expression levels of CyclinD1,GSK3a/b, P-AMPK, MMP9, andE-cadherin were studied by qRT-PCR and/or Western blotting. The anti-inflammatoryof nano-curcumin was assessed, while antioxidant activity was evaluated bymalondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and totalthiols (T-SH). To understand dynamic behavior of genes, we reconstructed aBoolean network, while the robustness of this model was evaluated by Hammingdistance. phytosomal-curcumin suppressed cell-growth followed by tumor-shrinkage in 3D model through perturbation of AMP-activated protein kinase. Curcuminreduced the invasiveness of MCF-7 through perturbation of E-cadherin. Moreover,phytosomal-curcumin inhibited the tumor growth in xerograph model. Histologicalstaining of tumor tissues revealed vascular disruption and RBC extravasation,necrosis, tumor stroma, and inflammation. Co-treatment of curcumin and 5-FUreduced the lipid-peroxidation and increased MDA/SOD level. Of note, curcuminreduced cyclinD-expression in breast cancer cell treated with thrombin, andactivates AMPK in a time-dependent manner. Also suppression of AMPK abrogatedinhibitory effect of phytosomal-curcumin on thrombin-induced cyclin D1over-expression, suggesting that AMPK is essential for anti-proliferative effect of this agent in breast cancer. Our finding demonstrated that phytosomal-curcuminantagonizes cell growth and migration, induced by thrombin through AMP-Kinase in breast cancer, supporting further-investigations on the therapeutic potential of this novel anticancer agent in treatment of breast cancer.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcb.26796 PMID: 29600521 