102. J Psychosom Res. 2018 May;108:22-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2018.02.013. Epub 2018 Feb 24.A systematic review of the quality of randomized controlled trials ofpsychological treatments for emotional distress in breast cancer.Temple J(1), Salmon P(2), Tudur-Smith C(3), Huntley CD(1), Fisher PL(4).Author information: (1)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Liverpool, WhelanBuilding, Liverpool, UK.(2)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Liverpool, WhelanBuilding, Liverpool, UK; Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals NHS Trust, Liverpool, UK.(3)Department of Biostatistics, Waterhouse Building, University of Liverpool,Liverpool, UK.(4)Department of Psychological Sciences, University of Liverpool, WhelanBuilding, Liverpool, UK; Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals NHS Trust, Liverpool, UK; Nidaros DPS, Division of Psychiatry, St. Olavs UniversityHospital, Trondheim, Norway. Electronic address: Peter.Fisher@liv.ac.uk.OBJECTIVE: Meta-analyses of trials of psychological treatments for emotionaldistress in breast cancer (BCa) conclude that efficacious treatments exist.Subsequently, their implementation in routine care is widely promoted by healthpolicy. However, the methodological quality of these trials has not beensystematically evaluated. The present review investigates this issue.METHOD: A systematic search identified randomized controlled trials ofpsychological treatments for emotional distress in BCa. The Psychotherapy OutcomeStudy Methodology Rating Form was used to assess the quality of trials. Genericdesign elements, including representativeness of sample, control of concomitanttreatments, reporting clinical significance outcomes, and design elementsspecific to psychotherapy trials, including manualisation, therapist training,and therapist adherence and competence were evaluated.RESULTS: 91 trials were eligible. Overall, methodological quality was low.Generic design elements were limited in most trials: 15% specified as aninclusion criterion that participants were distressed; 10% controlled forconcomitant treatments; and 11% reported the clinical significance of findings.Design elements specific to psychotherapy trials were also implemented poorly:51% used treatment manuals; 8% used certified trained therapists; and monitoring of adherence and competence occurred in 15% and 4%, respectively.CONCLUSION: The methodological quality of psychological treatment trials foremotional distress in BCa is improving. However, if relevant health policies are to be adequately empirically informed, trials of greater methodological rigourare essential. Trials should include participants with clinical levels ofdistress, control for concomitant treatments and report the clinical significanceof findings. Trialists must also consider the specific requirements ofpsychotherapy trials.Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2018.02.013 PMID: 29602322 