100. Rev Esp Patol. 2018 Apr - Jun;51(2):97-109. doi: 10.1016/j.patol.2017.12.002.Epub 2018 Mar 14.[Consensus statement on biomarkers in breast cancer by the Spanish Society ofPathology and the Spanish Society of Medical Oncology].[Article in Spanish]Palacios Calvo J(1), Albanell J(2), Rojo F(3), Ciruelos E(4), Aranda-López I(5), Cortés J(6), García-Caballero T(7), Martín M(8), López-García MÁ(9), ColomerR(10).Author information: (1)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal,CIBERONC, IRYCIS, Universidad de Alcalá, Madrid, España. Electronic address:jose.palacios@salud.madrid.org.(2)Departamento de Oncología Médica, Hospital del Mar, Instituto de InvestigaciónMédica del Hospital del Mar (IMIM), Universidad Pompeu Fabra, CIBERONC,Barcelona, España.(3)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital Universitario Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Madrid, España.(4)Departamento de Oncología Médica, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre,Madrid, España.(5)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital General Universitario deAlicante, Alicante, España.(6)Departamento de Oncología Médica, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal,Madrid, España; Instituto de Oncología Vall d'Hebron (VHIO), Instituto deOncología Baselga (IOB), Barcelona, España.(7)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Complexo Hospitalario de Santiago,Santiago de Compostela, La Coruña, España.(8)Departamento de Oncología Médica, Hospital Universitario Gregorio Marañón,CIBERONC, GEICAM, Madrid, España.(9)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío, CIBERONC, Sevilla, España.(10)Departamento de Oncología Médica, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa,Madrid, España.This consensus statement is a joint initiative of the Spanish Society ofPathology (SEAP) and the Spanish Society of Medical Oncology (SEOM). It revisesand updates the recommendations for the use of biomarkers in the diagnosis andtreatment of breast cancer. The group of experts recommends that, in all cases ofbreast cancer, the histologic grade and the alpha-estrogen receptor (ER),progesterone receptor, Ki-67 and HER2 status should be determined, in order toassist prognosis and establish therapeutic options, including hormone therapy,chemotherapy and anti-HER2 therapy. One of the four available genetic prognostic platforms (MammaPrint®, Oncotype DX®, Prosigna® or EndoPredict®) may be used innode-negative ER-positive patients to establish a prognostic category and decide,together with the patient, whether adjuvant treatment be limited to hormonaltherapy. Newer technologies, including next generation sequencing, liquid biopsy,tumour infiltrating lymphocytes or PD-1 determination, are still investigational.Copyright © 2018 Sociedad Española de Anatomía Patológica. Publicado por ElsevierEspaña, S.L.U. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.patol.2017.12.002 PMID: 29602380 