35. North Clin Istanb. 2018 Jan 22;5(1):6-13. doi: 10.14744/nci.2017.55822.eCollection 2018.Investigation of genotoxicity risk and DNA repair capacity in breast cancerpatients using anastrozole.Devecioglu TY(1), Aydogan F(2), Omurtag GZ(3), Bese NS(4), Sardas S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutical Toxicology, Marmara University Faculty ofPharmacy, Istanbul, Turkey.(2)Department of General Surgery Service of Breast Diseases, Istanbul University Cerrahpasa Faculty of Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.(3)Departmen of Pharmaceutical Toxicology, Medipol University Faculty ofPharmacy, Istanbul, Turkey.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Acıbadem University Faculty of Medicine,Istanbul, Turkey.OBJECTIVE: Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide and theincidence increases in postmenopausal women. Anastrozole is a non-steroidal (typeII), third-generation aromatase inhibitor (AI) that is used in the treatment ofpostmenopausal estrogen-related breast cancer. Several studies have beenconducted to assess the efficacy, safety, and superiority of AIs to tamoxifen;however, a literature search did not reveal a study that investigated thegenotoxic potential of AIs. The aim of this study was to investigate the possibleDNA damage risk profile and individual DNA repair capacity of patients usinganastrozole with the modified alkaline comet assay in order to contribute topublic health and health economics.METHODS: Women diagnosed with breast cancer after menopause comprised the studygroup. Six patients who had taken anastrozole for at least 6 months wereretrospectively enrolled, and 12 patients who had not yet received treatment wereprospectively enrolled as a control group. Peripheral blood lymphocytes were usedto measure oxidized DNA damage using formamidopyrimidine DNA-glycosylase (FPG)and endonuclease III (endo III) in a modified comet assay. Individual DNA repair capacity was evaluated with the comet assay after a hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)challenge to examine the difference in DNA damage susceptibility.RESULTS: Analysis of DNA damage, oxidative base damage, susceptibility to DNAdamage, and repair capacity revealed no significant difference between thecontrol group and the patients taking anastrozole (p>0.05). Susceptibility toH2O2 damage was observed to increase with age (p<0.05).CONCLUSION: According to the results obtained in this study, anastrozole did not contribute to oxidative DNA damage. An H2O2 challenge with the comet assay isuseful to evaluate circumstances of increased vulnerability to damage, such asaging and cancer.DOI: 10.14744/nci.2017.55822 PMCID: PMC5864710PMID: 29607425 