110. Skin Pharmacol Physiol. 2018;31(4):175-183. doi: 10.1159/000487404. Epub 2018 Apr4.Topical Treatment of Skin Injury Inflicted in Mice by X-Ray Irradiation.Meimeti E(1), Kafanas A(2), Pavlou P(1), Evangelatou A(3), Tsouparelou P(3),Kanellopoulos S(3), Kipouros P(3), Koliarakis N(3), Leonis G(1), Ioannou E(4),Roussis V(4), Rallis M(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, National andKapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.(2)Pathologist, Parodos Efthalias Adam, Serres, Greece.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Andreas Syggros Hospital of Dermatology and Venereology, Athens, Greece.(4)Department of Pharmacognosy and Chemistry of Natural Products, Faculty ofPharmacy, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens, Greece.BACKGROUND/AIMS: There is no treatment, without side effects, efficientlypreventing or curing skin burns, caused by radiotherapy. A new experimentaltopical treatment protocol was assessed in mice receiving orthovoltage X-rays at an equivalent dose to that applied to human breast cancer patients inconventional radiotherapy.METHODS: SKH-HR2 female hairless mice were irradiated on their dorsum with atotal dose of 4,300 cGy during a 1-month period (20 fractions). The treatmentgroup received a combination of 3 topical products, an oil-in-water cream, a gel containing Pinus halepensis bark aqueous extract, and an ointment containingolive oil extract of the marine isopod Ceratothoa oestroides. The positivecontrol group was treated with a conventionally used commercial gel, whereas the negative control group did not receive any topical treatment. Skin alterationswere evaluated by macroscopic examinations, measurements of transepidermal water loss (TEWL), melanin content, erythema intensity, hydration, and histopathologyassessment.RESULTS: Sixty days after radiation, TEWL and hydration values were abnormal and elements of acute, chronic, and granulomatous inflammation were present in allcases. The severest damage was detected in the deeper dermis. Treatment showed a comparatively beneficial effect on chronic and granulomatous inflammation whilepositive control was beneficial on acute inflammation.CONCLUSION: Skin anti-inflammatory treatment was the most effective but must beapplied for several months. Further preclinical studies should be conducted,assimilating a human cancer radiation therapeutic schema with the aim ofoptimizing skin inflammation treatment.© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.DOI: 10.1159/000487404 PMID: 29617695 