76. Plast Surg (Oakv). 2018 Feb;26(1):18-25. doi: 10.1177/2292550317731764. Epub 2017Sep 21.Comparison of Outcomes in Immediate Implant-Based Breast Reconstruction VersusMastectomy Alone.Sousa J(1), Sood R(1), Liu D(2), Calhoun K(1), Louie O(1), Neligan P(1), SaidH(1), Mathes D(3).Author information: (1)Division of Plastic Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.(2)Cancer Treatment Centers of America, Zion, IL, USA.(3)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, University of Colorado,Aurora, CO, USA.Objectives: Immediate implant-based techniques are common practice inpost-mastectomy breast reconstruction. Previous studies have shown an increasedcomplication rate in the setting of immediate versus delayed, MD reconstruction. We aimed to quantify any additional risk in complications when implant-basedimmediate breast reconstruction (IBR) is performed versus mastectomy alone.Materials and Methods: We retrospectively reviewed all IBR cases and allmastectomies without reconstruction from 2007 to 2011. Patient characteristics,operative details, and complication rates were reviewed and analyzed.Results: IBR was performed in 315 consecutive women; mastectomy alone wasperformed in 401 women. Patients undergoing mastectomy alone were more oftenolder, diabetic, and more frequently underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy orradiation. Overall complications were higher in the IBR group, most commonlyreoperation and delayed wound healing. In a multivariate analysis, IBR,increasing age, body mass index, history of radiation therapy, smoking, andnipple-sparing mastectomy were independently associated with increased risk ofcomplications. However, IBR was only independently associated with increased riskof major complications such as reoperation or readmission for intravenousantibiotics, not minor complications.Conclusion: Patients selected for IBR are inherently different than thoseundergoing mastectomy alone. After adjusting for these differences, the increasedrisk of complications seen in IBR is moderately increased over the risk ofcomplications in mastectomy alone. The observed increased risk of majorcomplications after IBR is largely due to the aggressive management ofcomplications in the setting of a prosthetic implant. IBR is a safereconstructive strategy with only a slightly increased risk over mastectomyalone.Publisher: Les techniques de reconstruction mammaire immédiate par implant sontcourantes après une mastectomie. Des études antérieures ont démontré un taux decomplication plus élevé après une reconstruction immédiate qu’après unereconstruction tardive. Les auteurs ont cherché à quantifier le risquesupplémentaire de complications après une reconstruction mammaire immédiate (RMI)par rapport à une mastectomie effectuée seule.Les auteurs ont procédé à uneanalyse rétrospective de toutes les RMI et de toutes les mastectomies sansreconstruction effectuées entre 2007 et 2011. Ils ont étudié et analysé lescaractéristiques de patientes, les détails des opérations et le taux decomplications.Selon l’analyse, 315 femmes consécutives ont subi une RMI et 401femmes, une mastectomie seule. Les patientes qui avaient subi une mastectomieseule étaient souvent plus âgées, diabétiques et soumises à une chimiothérapienéoadjuvante ou à une radiothérapie. Les complications globales étaient plusélevées dans le groupe ayant subi une RMI, surtout à cause d’une réopération etd’une guérison plus lente des plaies. D’après une analyse multivariée, la RMI, levieillissement, l’indice de masse corporelle, des antécédents de radiothérapiele tabagisme et une mastectomie épargnant le mamelon présentaient une corrélationindépendante avec un risque accru de complications. La RMI présentait seulementune corrélation indépendante avec un risque accru de complications majeures commeune réopération ou une réhospitalisation visant à administrer des antibiotiquespar voie intraveineuse, et non de complications mineures.Les patientessélectionnées pour la RMI sont foncièrement différentes de celles qui subissentune mastectomie seule. Après rajustement pour tenir compte de ces différences, lerisque de complications observé après une RMI est légèrement plus élevé que celuiqui s’associe à une mastectomie seule. Le risque accru de complications majeures observé après une RMI est largement attribuable à la prise en charge énergiquedes complications après un implant prothétique. La RMI est une stratégie dereconstruction sécuritaire dont le risque est seulement un peu plus élevé que la mastectomie seule.DOI: 10.1177/2292550317731764 PMCID: PMC5871111 [Available on 2019-02-01]PMID: 29619355 