138. Oncol Lett. 2018 May;15(5):6233-6240. doi: 10.3892/ol.2018.8113. Epub 2018 Feb23.Establishment of a murine breast tumor model by subcutaneous or orthotopicimplantation.Zhang Y(1), Zhang GL(1), Sun X(1), Cao KX(1), Ma C(1), Nan N(1), Yang GW(1), YuMW(1), Wang XM(1).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine,Capital Medical University, Beijing 100010, P.R. China.A number of murine models are used to mimic the pathology of breast cancer.Tissue inoculation and cell inoculation using orthotopic implantation (OS) andsubcutaneous implantation (SQ) are commonly used to generate murine models toinvestigate cancer. However, limited information is available in regard to thevariations of these methods. The present study compared growth, metastasis,survival and histopathology of tumors produced using OS and SQ to characterizefeatures of the tumors produced by the two distinct methods. Additionally, thepresent study aimed at providing increased options for investigators whendesigning experiments. 4T1-luc2 cell suspension or 4T1-luc2 tissue suspension wasinoculated using either OS or SQ into BALB/c mice. Tumor growth and metastasiswere detected using an in vivo imaging system and calipers. Excised tumors andlung were assessed by tissue staining with hematoxylin and eosin, and the vessel marker cluster of differentiation 31. The results of the present study revealedthat the cell suspension generated breast tumors of increased size, which wasvisualized and determined, following inoculation, using calipers at an earliertime point compared with tumors produced by tissue suspension. The increasingbioluminescent trend of OS tumors was more marked compared with that of SQtumors. The volume of OS tumor was increased with decreased variation, comparedwith that of SQ tumors. In addition, the OS tumor exhibited increased microvesseldensity. Bioluminescent signals and histological results in regard to metastasis were consistent: OS implantation produced increased lung metastasis compared withthat of SQ implantation, although they exhibited similar survival times. Theresults of the present study indicated that the inocula from distinct sources(tissue or cell) affected tumor growth. Furthermore, breast tumor progression andhistopathological characteristics were distinct between OS and SQ, whereas OSexhibited increased malignant behavior. Understanding the characteristics ofmurine breast cancer models established by diverse methods may aid investigators to select appropriate animal models, according to the requirements of the study.DOI: 10.3892/ol.2018.8113 PMCID: PMC5876452PMID: 29616105 