128. Phys Med Biol. 2018 May 2;63(9):095008. doi: 10.1088/1361-6560/aabb5a.Introduction of a hybrid treatment delivery system used for quality assurance in multi-catheter interstitial brachytherapy.Kallis K(1), Kreppner S, Lotter M, Fietkau R, Strnad V, Bert C.Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen,Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.Strahlenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen, Universitätsstraße 27, 91054Erlangen, Germany.Multi-catheter interstitial brachytherapy (iBT) is a treatment option for breast cancer patients after breast conserving surgery. Typically, only a few additionalquality interventions after the first irradiation have been introduced to ensure the planned treatment delivery. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to showthe possibilities of an electromagnetic tracking (EMT) system integrated into theafterloader for quality assurance (QA) in high-dose rate (HDR) iBT of patientswith breast cancer. The hybrid afterloader system equipped with anelectromagnetic sensor was used for all phantom and patient measurements. Phantommeasurements were conducted to estimate the quality of different evaluationschemes. After a coherent point drift registration of the EMT traces to thereconstructed catheters based on computed tomograms the dwell positions (DP) weredefined. Different fitting and interpolation methods were analyzed for thereconstruction of DPs. All estimated DPs were compared to the DPs defined intreatment planning. Until now, the implant geometry of 20 patients treated withHDR brachytherapy was acquired and explored. Regarding the reconstructiontechniques, both fitting and interpolation were able to detect manuallyintroduced shifts and swaps. Nonetheless, interpolation showed superior results(RMSE  =  1.27 mm), whereas fitting seemed to be more stable to distortion andmotion. The EMT system proved to be beneficial for QA in brachytherapy andfurthermore, clinical feasibility was proven.DOI: 10.1088/1361-6560/aabb5a PMID: 29616659 