90. J Mol Endocrinol. 2018 Aug;61(2):T233-T252. doi: 10.1530/JME-18-0045. Epub 2018Apr 4.SULFATION PATHWAYS: Steroid sulphatase inhibition via aryl sulphamates: clinical progress, mechanism and future prospects.Potter BVL(1).Author information: (1)Medicinal Chemistry & Drug DiscoveryDepartment of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK barry.potter@pharm.ox.ac.uk.Steroid sulphatase is an emerging drug target for the endocrine therapy ofhormone-dependent diseases, catalysing oestrogen sulphate hydrolysis tooestrogen. Drug discovery, developing the core aryl O-sulphamate pharmacophore,has led to steroidal and non-steroidal drugs entering numerous clinical trials,with promising results in oncology and women's health. Steroidal oestrogensulphamate derivatives were the first irreversible active-site-directedinhibitors and one was developed clinically as an oral oestradiol pro-drug andfor endometriosis applications. This review summarizes work leading to thetherapeutic concept of sulphatase inhibition, clinical trials executed to dateand new insights into the mechanism of inhibition of steroid sulphatase. To date,the non-steroidal sulphatase inhibitor Irosustat has been evaluated clinically inbreast cancer, alone and in combination, in endometrial cancer and in prostatecancer. The versatile core pharmacophore both imbues attractive pharmaceuticalproperties and functions via three distinct mechanisms of action, as a pro-drug, an enzyme active-site-modifying motif, likely through direct sulphamoyl grouptransfer, and as a structural component augmenting activity, for example byenhancing interactions at the colchicine binding site of tubulin. Preliminary newstructural data on the Pseudomonas aeruginosa arylsulphatase enzyme suggest twopossible sulphamate-based adducts with the active site formylglycine ascandidates for the inhibition end product via sulphamoyl or sulphonylaminetransfer, and a speculative choice is suggested. The clinical status ofsulphatase inhibition is surveyed and how it might develop in the future. Alsodiscussed are dual-targeting approaches, development of 2-substituted steroidalsulphamates and non-steroidal derivatives as multi-targeting agents forhormone-independent tumours, with other emerging directions.© 2018 Society for Endocrinology.DOI: 10.1530/JME-18-0045 PMID: 29618488 