145. Sci Rep. 2018 Apr 3;8(1):5462. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-23726-3.Insensitivity to atorvastatin is associated with increased accumulation ofintracellular lipid droplets and fatty acid metabolism in breast cancer cells.Lettiero B(1), Inasu M(2), Kimbung S(2), Borgquist S(3)(4).Author information: (1)Division of Oncology and Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences, LundUniversity, Lund, Sweden. barbara.lettiero@med.lu.se.(2)Division of Oncology and Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences, LundUniversity, Lund, Sweden.(3)Division of Oncology and Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences, LundUniversity, Lund, Sweden. signe.borgquist@med.lu.se.(4)Clinical Trial Unit, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.signe.borgquist@med.lu.se.Apart from the relevant lipid-lowering effects, statins have demonstratedsignificant, although heterogeneous, anti-tumor activities in preventing breastcancer (BC) progression. To characterize the critical pathways behind the diverseresponses to therapy, we investigated statin-induced changes in regulation oflipid metabolism and abundance of neutral lipid-containing cytoplasmic lipiddroplets (LDs) in BC cells displaying different sensitivity to atorvastatin.Following atorvastatin treatment, accumulated LD levels inversely mirrored themarginal anti-proliferative effects in a dose and time-dependent manner in theless-sensitive BC cells. Transcriptional profiling excluded dysregulation oflipid uptake and efflux as specific mechanisms associated with differences in LD accumulation and anti-proliferative effects of atorvastatin. Notably, significantupregulation of genes involved in unsaturated fatty acid metabolism [stearoyl-CoAdesaturase (SCD)] and cholesterol biosynthesis [3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoAreductase (HMGCR)], were associated with atorvastatin insensitivity. Takentogether, the increased ability to store neutral lipids in LDs as consequence of atorvastatin treatment likely confers a proliferative advantage to BC cells andmay serve as potential biomarker of statin resistance in BC. Contributions ofcholesterol biosynthesis and unsaturated fatty acid metabolism to LD formationshould be thoroughly explored for better understanding of the molecularmechanisms underlying statin-induced effects against BC progression.DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-23726-3 PMCID: PMC5882899PMID: 29615666 