1. Breast. 2018 Jun;39:139-147. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.03.009. Epub 2018 Mar 30.Personalized prevention in high risk individuals: Managing hormones and beyond.Evans DG(1), Howell SJ(2), Howell A(2).Author information: (1)Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine, Division of Evolution and GenomicSciences, School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health,University of Manchester, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK; Prevent Breast Cancer and Nightingale Breast Screening Centre, WythenshaweHospital Manchester Universities Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK; ManchesterAcademic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK; TheChristie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK; Manchester Centre for GenomicMedicine, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust,Manchester, UK; Manchester Breast Centre, Manchester Cancer Research Centre,University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. Electronic address:gareth.evans@cmft.nhs.uk.(2)Prevent Breast Cancer and Nightingale Breast Screening Centre, WythenshaweHospital Manchester Universities Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK; ManchesterAcademic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK; TheChristie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK; Manchester Breast Centre,Manchester Cancer Research Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.Increasing numbers of women are being identified at 'high-risk' of breast cancer,defined by The National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) as a10-year risk of ≥8%. Classically women have been so identified through familyhistory based risk algorithms or genetic testing of high-risk genes. Recentresearch has shown that assessment of mammographic density and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), when combined with established risk factors, trebles thenumber of women reaching the high risk threshold. The options for risk reduction in such women include endocrine chemoprevention with the selective estrogenreceptor modulators tamoxifen and raloxifene or the aromatase inhibitorsanastrozole or exemestane. NICE recommends offering anastrozole to postmenopausalwomen at high-risk of breast cancer as cost effectiveness analysis showed this tobe cost saving to the National Health Service. Overall uptake to chemoprevention has been disappointingly low but this may improve with the improved efficacy ofaromatase inhibitors, particularly the lack of toxicity to the endometrium andthrombogenic risks. Novel approaches to chemoprevention under investigationinclude lower dose and topical tamoxifen, denosumab, anti-progestins andmetformin. Although oophorectomy is usually only recommended to women atincreased risk of ovarian cancer it has been shown in numerous studies to reduce breast cancer risks in the general population and in those with mutations inBRCA1/2. However, recent evidence from studies that have confined analysis totrue prospective follow up have cast doubt on the efficacy of oophorectomy toreduce breast cancer risk in BRCA1 mutation carriers, at least in the short-term.Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.03.009 PMID: 29610032 