194. Maedica (Buchar). 2017 Dec;12(4):258-266.Plasma Prolactin and Total Lipid Levels and Subsequent Risk of Breast Cancer inPre- and Postmenopausal Women: Experience from an Indian Rural Centre.Gupta N(1), Mendiratta G(1), Singal R(1), Sharma NS(1).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, M.M. Institute of Medical Sciences and Research,Mullana (Distt-Ambala), Haryana, India.Aims and objectives: 1) To analyze serum lipid and prolactin levels in breastcancer patients and normal subjects; 2) to correlate those levels with risk andprognostic factors.Material and Methods: The present study was performed in the Department ofSurgery, MMIMSR, Mullana, Ambala, from 2013 to 2014, at a rural centre. The studygroup comprised 40 patients with carcinoma of the breast who underwent surgeryand the control group included 10 patients who underwent surgery for reasonsother than carcinoma of the breast. Apart from routine tests, specialinvestigations like estimation of serum lipids and prolactin levels were carried out in each patient to assess the general health status and detect any potential evidence of distance metastasis.Results: Most patients were in the fourth and fifth decade of life. The meanvalue of serum total cholesterol in the study group (190.77 mg/dL) was higherthan that of the control group (166.22 mg/dL), which was statisticallysignificant. The mean value of LDL in the study group was 153.8 mg/dL, ascompared to 118.4 mg/dL in the control group; therefore, the difference in LDLcholesterol levels between the two groups was statistically significant. The VLDLlevel was also higher in breast cancer patients, with a mean value of 35.25mg/dL, as compared to 22.6 mg/dL in the control group. Serum triglycerides showedhigher trends in the study group than in controls. The correlation coefficient oftotal lipids and prolactin was 0.428, which was significant (p value 0.002), and pointed to a positive relation between prolactin and total lipids, meaning thatan elevation in total lipids would lead to an increase in prolactin levels.Conclusions: It was observed that significantly increased prolactin levels werefound among patients with breast cancer. Serum lipids in carcinoma of the breast had higher levels of VLDL and LDL cholesterol and elevated triglycerideconcentrations. Serum prolactin showed a statistically significant elevation inpremenopausal patients as compared to postmenopausal subjects with breast cancer.Prolactin level may be also one of the risk factors for breast cancer, whichpoints to its diagnostic significance.PMCID: PMC5879588PMID: 29610588 