152. JMIR Cancer. 2018 Apr 3;4(1):e6. doi: 10.2196/cancer.7926.Analysis of Content Shared in Online Cancer Communities: Systematic Review.van Eenbergen MC(1), van de Poll-Franse LV(1)(2)(3), Krahmer E(4), Verberne S(5),Mols F(3).Author information: (1)Department of Research, Netherlands Comprehensive Cancer Organisation,Utrecht, Netherlands.(2)Division of Psychosocial Research & Epidemiology, The Netherlands CancerInstitute, Amsterdam, Netherlands.(3)Department of Medical and Clinical Psychology, Tilburg University, Tilburg,Netherlands.(4)Tilburg Center for Cognition and Communication, Tilburg University, Tilburg,Netherlands.(5)Leiden Institute of Advanced Computer Science, Leiden University, Leiden,Netherlands.BACKGROUND: The content that cancer patients and their relatives (ie, posters)share in online cancer communities has been researched in various ways. In thepast decade, researchers have used automated analysis methods in addition tomanual coding methods. Patients, providers, researchers, and health careprofessionals can learn from experienced patients, provided that their experienceis findable.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to systematically review all relevantliterature that analyzes user-generated content shared within online cancercommunities. We reviewed the quality of available research and the kind ofcontent that posters share with each other on the internet.METHODS: A computerized literature search was performed via PubMed (MEDLINE),PsycINFO (5 and 4 stars), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, andScienceDirect. The last search was conducted in July 2017. Papers were selectedif they included the following terms: (cancer patient) and (support group orhealth communities) and (online or internet). We selected 27 papers and thensubjected them to a 14-item quality checklist independently scored by 2investigators.RESULTS: The methodological quality of the selected studies varied: 16 were ofhigh quality and 11 were of adequate quality. Of those 27 studies, 15 weremanually coded, 7 automated, and 5 used a combination of methods. The bestresults can be seen in the papers that combined both analytical methods. Thenumber of analyzed posts ranged from 200 to 1,500,000; the number of analyzedposters ranged from 75 to 90,000. The studies analyzing large numbers of postsmainly related to breast cancer, whereas those analyzing small numbers wererelated to other types of cancers. A total of 12 studies involved some orentirely automatic analysis of the user-generated content. All the authorsreferred to two main content categories: informational support and emotionalsupport. In all, 15 studies reported only on the content, 6 studies explicitlyreported on content and social aspects, and 6 studies focused on emotionalchanges.CONCLUSIONS: In the future, increasing amounts of user-generated content willbecome available on the internet. The results of content analysis, especially of the larger studies, give detailed insights into patients' concerns and worries,which can then be used to improve cancer care. To make the results of suchanalyses as usable as possible, automatic content analysis methods will need tobe improved through interdisciplinary collaboration.©Mies C van Eenbergen, Lonneke V van de Poll-Franse, Emiel Krahmer, SuzanVerberne, Floortje Mols. Originally published in JMIR Cancer(http://cancer.jmir.org), 03.04.2018.DOI: 10.2196/cancer.7926 PMCID: PMC5904449PMID: 29615384 