191. Med Phys. 2018 Jun;45(6):2369-2376. doi: 10.1002/mp.12899. Epub 2018 Apr 24.Interplay effect on a 6-MV flattening-filter-free linear accelerator with highdose rate and fast multi-leaf collimator motion treating breast and lungphantoms.Netherton T(1)(2), Li Y(1)(3), Nitsch P(2), Shaitelman S(2), Balter P(2), GaoS(2), Klopp A(2), Muruganandham M(2), Court L(2).Author information: (1)The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences at Houston,Houston, TX, USA.(2)Department of Radiation Physics, Division of Radiation Oncology, TheUniversity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Ohio State University Medical Center,Columbus, OH, USA.PURPOSE: Using a new linear accelerator with high dose rate (800 MU/min), fastMLC motions (5.0 cm/s), fast gantry rotation (15 s/rotation), and 1 cm wide MLCs,we aimed to quantify the effects of complexity, arc number, and fractionation on interplay for breast and lung treatments under target motion.METHODS: To study lung interplay, eight VMAT plans (1-6 arcs) and four-nine-fieldsliding-window IMRT plans varying in complexity were created. For the breastplans, four-four-field sliding-window IMRT plans were created. Using the Halcyon 1.0 linear accelerator, each plan was delivered five times each under sinusoidal breathing motion to a phantom with 20 implanted MOSFET detectors; MOSFET dose(cGy), delivery time, and MU/cGy values were recorded. Maximum and mean dosedeviations were calculated from MOSFET data. The number of MOSFETs with at least 19 of 20 detectors agreeing with their expected dose within 5% per fraction wascalculated across 106 iterations to model dose deviation as function of fraction number for all plan variants. To put interplay plans into clinical context,additional IMRT and VMAT plans were created and delivered for the sites of headand neck, prostate, whole brain, breast, pelvis, and lung. Average modulation andinterplay effect were compared to those from conventional linear accelerators, asreported from previous studies.RESULTS: The mean beam modulation for plans created for the Halcyon 1.0 linearaccelerator was 2.9 MU/cGy (two- to four-field IMRT breast plans), 6.2 MU/cGy (atleast five-field IMRT), and 3.6 MU/cGy (four-arc VMAT). To achieve treatment planobjectives, Halcyon 1.0 VMAT plans require more arcs and modulation than VMAT on conventional linear accelerators. Maximum and mean dose deviations increased withincreasing plan complexity under tumor motion for breast and lung treatments.Concerning VMAT plans under motion, maximum, and mean dose deviations were higherfor one arc than for two arcs regardless of plan complexity. For plan variantswith maximum dose deviations greater than 3.7%, dose deviation as a function offraction number was protracted.CONCLUSION: For treatments on the Halcyon 1.0 linear accelerator, the convergenceof dose deviation with fraction number happened more slowly than reported forconventional linear accelerators. However, if plan complexity is reduced for IMRTand if tumor motion is less than ~10-mm, interplay is greatly reduced. Tominimize dose deviations across multiple fractions for dynamic targets, werecommend limiting treatment plan complexity and avoiding one-arc VMAT on theHalcyon 1.0 linear accelerator when interplay is a concern.© 2018 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mp.12899 PMID: 29611210 