Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: Theauthor(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to theresearch, authorship, and/or publication of this article.79. Plast Surg (Oakv). 2017 Nov;25(4):242-248. doi: 10.1177/2292550317728034. Epub2017 Sep 20.Factors Influencing the Rate of Post-Mastectomy Breast Reconstruction in aCanadian Teaching Hospital.Karunanayake M(1), Bortoluzzi P(1), Chollet A(1), Lin JC(1).Author information: (1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Université de Montréal,Montreal, Québec, Canada.Background: Post-mastectomy breast reconstruction (PMBR) improves psychosocialwell-being, quality of life, and body image. Reconstruction rates vary widely (upto 42% in the United States), but the few Canadian studies available report ratesof 3.8% to 7.9%. We sought to evaluate the current state of breast reconstructionin 1 Canadian teaching hospital and factors determining patients' access toreconstruction.Methods: We performed a retrospective chart review of all patients with breastcancer undergoing mastectomy alone or mastectomy and reconstruction at a Canadianhospital between 2010 and 2013. We calculated rates of breast reconstruction and compared patient characteristics between the 2 groups, and then performed amultiple logistic regression to determine factors increasing the odds ofreceiving breast reconstruction.Results: A total of 152 patients underwent 154 total or modified radicalmastectomies. We obtained a rate of PMBR of 21%, 14% immediate reconstruction,and 8% delayed. Statistical analysis showed that compared to patients withmastectomy alone, patients who received PMBR were significantly younger, with alarger percentage having bilateral mastectomies, non-invasive breast cancer, and residing further from the hospital. Patients less than 50 years old and thosewith bilateral mastectomies had significantly greater odds of having areconstruction.Conclusions: Our Canadian tertiary care institution has a high volume of breastsurgery and an active breast reconstruction team. However, the rate of immediate reconstruction remains low compared to similar centers in the United States. Werecommend a united effort to increase awareness regarding PMBR and address commonmisconceptions hindering patients' access to breast reconstruction.Level of Evidence: Epidemiologic study, Level III.Publisher: La reconstruction mammaire postmastectomie (RMPM) améliore lebien-être psychosocial, la qualité de vie et l’image corporelle. Le taux dereconstructions varie considérablement (jusqu’à 42 % aux États-Unis), mais lesquelques études canadiennes signalent un taux de 3,8 % à 7,9 %. Les auteurs ontcherché à évaluer la situation relative aux reconstructions mammaires dans unhôpital universitaire canadien et les facteurs déterminant l’accès à lareconstruction.Les chercheurs ont procédé à une analyse rétrospective desdossiers de toutes les patientes atteintes d’un cancer du sein qui avaient subiune simple mastectomie ou une mastectomie suivie d’une reconstruction dans unhôpital canadien entre 2010 et 2013. Ils ont calculé le taux de reconstructionsmammaires et comparé les caractéristiques des patientes des deux groupes, puisont procédé à une régression logistique multiple pour déterminer les facteurs quiaccroissaient la probabilité de reconstruction mammaire.Au total, 152 patientsont subi 154 mastectomies radicales totales ou modifiées. Les chercheurs ontobtenu un taux de RMPM de 21 %, soit 14 % de reconstructions immédiates et 8 % dereconstructions tardives. L’analyse statistique a révélé que, par rapport auxpatientes qui avaient subi une simple mastectomie, celles qui avaient reçu uneRMPM étaient considérablement plus jeunes, et un plus fort pourcentage avait subiune mastectomie bilatérale, était atteint d’un cancer du sein non invasif ethabitait loin de l’hôpital. Les patientes de moins de 50 ans et celles quiavaient subi une mastectomie bilatérale couraient une plus grande chance de subirune reconstruction.Notre établissement de soins tertiaires canadien effectue unfort volume de chirurgies du sein et dispose d’une équipe de reconstructionmammaire active. Cependant, le taux de reconstructions immédiates demeure faible par rapport à celui de centres similaires aux États-Unis. Nous recommandonsd’adopter un front uni pour mieux faire connaître la RMPM et calmer les erreurscourantes qui empêchent les patients d’avoir accès à la reconstruction mammaire. Qualité des preuves : Étude épidémiologique, niveau III.DOI: 10.1177/2292550317728034 PMCID: PMC5871067 [Available on 2018-11-01]PMID: 29619346 