118. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Apr 4;19(4). pii: E1084. doi: 10.3390/ijms19041084.Radiation-Induced Gene Expression Changes in High and Low Grade Breast CancerCell Types.Bravatà V(1), Cava C(2), Minafra L(3), Cammarata FP(4), Russo G(5), GilardiMC(6)(7), Castiglioni I(8), Forte GI(9).Author information: (1)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,90015 Cefalù (Pa), Italy. valentina.bravata@ibfm.cnr.it.(2)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,20090 Segrate (Mi), Italy claudia.cava@ibfm.cnr.it. claudia.cava@ibfm.cnr.it.(3)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,90015 Cefalù (Pa), Italy. luigi.minafra@ibfm.cnr.it.(4)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,90015 Cefalù (Pa), Italy. francesco.cammarata@ibfm.cnr.it.(5)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,90015 Cefalù (Pa), Italy. giorgio.russo@ibfm.cnr.it.(6)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,90015 Cefalù (Pa), Italy. mariacarla.gilardi@ibfm.cnr.it.(7)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,20090 Segrate (Mi), Italy claudia.cava@ibfm.cnr.it.mariacarla.gilardi@ibfm.cnr.it.(8)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,20090 Segrate (Mi), Italy claudia.cava@ibfm.cnr.it.isabella.castiglioni@ibfm.cnr.it.(9)Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology, National Research Council,90015 Cefalù (Pa), Italy. giusi.forte@ibfm.cnr.it.BACKGROUND: There is extensive scientific evidence that radiation therapy (RT) isa crucial treatment, either alone or in combination with other treatmentmodalities, for many types of cancer, including breast cancer (BC). BC is aheterogeneous disease at both clinical and molecular levels, presenting distinct subtypes linked to the hormone receptor (HR) status and associated with differentclinical outcomes. The aim of this study was to assess the molecular changesinduced by high doses of ionizing radiation (IR) on immortalized and primary BCcell lines grouped according to Human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2),estrogen, and progesterone receptors, to study how HR status influences theradiation response. Our genomic approach using in vitro and ex-vivo models (e.g.,primary cells) is a necessary first step for a translational study to describethe common driven radio-resistance features associated with HR status. Thisinformation will eventually allow clinicians to prescribe more personalized totaldoses or associated targeted therapies for specific tumor subtypes, thusenhancing cancer radio-sensitivity.METHODS: Nontumorigenic (MCF10A) and BC (MCF7 and MDA-MB-231) immortalized celllines, as well as healthy (HMEC) and BC (BCpc7 and BCpcEMT) primary cultures,were divided into low grade, high grade, and healthy groups according to their HRstatus. At 24 h post-treatment, the gene expression profiles induced by two dosesof IR treatment with 9 and 23 Gy were analyzed by cDNA microarray technology toselect and compare the differential gene and pathway expressions among theexperimental groups.RESULTS: We present a descriptive report of the substantial alterations in geneexpression levels and pathways after IR treatment in both immortalized andprimary cell cultures. Overall, the IR-induced gene expression profiles andpathways appear to be cell-line dependent. The data suggest that some specificgene and pathway signatures seem to be linked to HR status.CONCLUSIONS: Genomic biomarkers and gene-signatures of specific tumor subtypes,selected according to their HR status and molecular features, could facilitatepersonalized biological-driven RT treatment planning alone and in combinationwith targeted therapies.DOI: 10.3390/ijms19041084 PMCID: PMC5979377PMID: 29617354 