83. J Contemp Brachytherapy. 2018 Feb;10(1):47-57. doi: 10.5114/jcb.2018.74137. Epub 2018 Feb 28.Should molecular subtype be recommended as one of the selection criteria foraccelerated partial breast irradiation? Preliminary results from an Asian cohort.Wadasadawala T(1), Mondal M(2), Paul SN(3), Parmar V(4), Nair N(5), Shet T(6),Desai S(6), Gupta S(7), Sarin R(2).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research &Education in Cancer (ACTREC), Tata Memorial Centre (TMC), Kharghar, Navi Mumbai.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), Parel, Mumbai.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology (Medical Physics), ACTREC, TMC, Kharghar,Navi Mumbai.(4)Department of Surgical Oncology, ACTREC, TMC, Kharghar, Navi Mumbai.(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, TMH, Parel, Mumbai.(6)Department of Pathology, TMH, Parel, Mumbai.(7)Department of Medical Oncology, ACTREC,TMC, Kharghar, Navi Mumbai, India.Purpose: The purpose of this study was to report clinical outcomes in patientstreated with accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI), stratified as permolecular subtype and American Society for Therapeutic Radiology andOncology/Groupe Européen de Curiethérapie and European Society for Radiotherapy &Oncology (ASTRO/GEC-ESTRO) patient selection criteria in order to determinewhether molecular subtype should be recommended as one of the selection criteria for APBI.Material and methods: 157 early-stage breast cancers patients, treated with APBI using multi-catheter interstitial brachytherapy with ≥ 6 months follow-up wereincluded. Molecular subtype was assigned based on estrogen/progesterone receptor (ER/PR), Her2neu and tumor grade. Patients were stratified into ASTRO andGEC-ESTRO risk groups, as per updated ASTRO consensus statement (CS) andGEC-ESTRO recommendation, respectively. The Kaplan-Meier method was used tocalculate the time to event data of clinical outcomes.Results: With a median follow-up of 35 months, local control (LC) andlocoregional control (LRC) were not significantly different among the differentmolecular subtypes (p = 0.19, p = 0.41, respectively). None of the APBIguidelines predicted risk of local or locoregional recurrence. Re-analyzing thedata by replacing ER status with molecular subtype in the ASTRO-CS did not showany significant difference in LC/LRC across the various categories. Her2neusubtype was associated with significantly lower disease-free survival, causespecific survival, and overall survival than the luminal subtypes.Conclusions: None of the mentioned APBI guidelines predicted local orlocoregional recurrence risk in our study population. Additional follow-up willbe needed to recommend inclusion of molecular subtype (or at least HER2 receptor status) in the patient selection criteria for APBI.DOI: 10.5114/jcb.2018.74137 PMCID: PMC5881594PMID: 29619056 