165. BMC Cancer. 2018 Apr 3;18(1):366. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4284-y.Altered monocyte differentiation and macrophage polarization patterns in patientswith breast cancer.Hung CH(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Chen FM(6)(7)(8), Lin YC(1)(9)(10), Tsai ML(1), WangSL(1), Chen YC(1)(4), Chen YT(1), Hou MF(11)(12)(13).Author information: (1)Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, KaohsiungMedical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(2)Department of Pediatrics Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, KaohsiungMedical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(3)Graduate Institute of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung MedicalUniversity, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(4)Department of Pediatrics, Kaohsiung Municipal Hsiao-Kang Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(5)Research Center for Environmental Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University,Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(6)Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Municipal Ta-Tung Hospital, Kaohsiung,Taiwan.(7)Department of Surgery Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, KaohsiungMedical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(8)Division of Breast Surgery, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(9)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital,Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(10)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(11)Department of Surgery Faculty of Medicine, College of Medicine, KaohsiungMedical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. mifeho@kmu.edu.tw.(12)Division of Breast Surgery, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung,Taiwan. mifeho@kmu.edu.tw.(13)Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Municipal Hsiao-Kang Hospital, KaohsiungMedical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. mifeho@kmu.edu.tw.BACKGROUND: Macrophage heterogeneity is the main feature of the tumourmicroenvironment. Breast cancer is one of the most life-threatening cancers.However, macrophage polarization patterns in different tumour stages and theimportance of its relationship to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)in breast cancer remains highly unclear. The present study investigated thepatterns of monocyte differentiation and macrophage polarization in breastcancer.METHODS: Patients with breast cancer (n = 48) and healthy controls (n = 39) were prospectively recruited. The percentages and subsets of circulatingmacrophage-like cells were analysed by flow cytometry, and the polarizationpatterns of these cells in the peripheral blood of patients with breast cancerwere compared with those of healthy controls. In addition, macrophagepolarization patterns in different stages and HER2 status in breast cancer wereinvestigated.RESULTS: The percentages of circulating macrophages, which are defined as PM-2 K+cells in the peripheral blood, were significantly higher in patients with breast cancer than in healthy controls. The percentages of M1-like macrophages weresignificantly lower, but those of M2-like macrophages were significantly higherin patients with breast cancer than in healthy controls. The percentage ofM2c-like macrophages was significantly higher in advanced (stages II and III)breast cancer. However, the patterns of macrophage polarization were notassociated with HER2 status in breast cancer.CONCLUSIONS: Aberrant macrophage polarization was observed in breast cancer andwas correlated with breast cancer stage. These quantitative data may provide new molecular biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets in breast cancer.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4284-y PMCID: PMC5883269PMID: 29614988 