109. Ann Behav Med. 2018 Mar 29. doi: 10.1093/abm/kay004. [Epub ahead of print]Changes in Body Mass Index and Physical Activity Predict Changes in VitalityDuring a Weight Loss Trial in Breast Cancer Survivors.Kenzik KM(1)(2), Demark-Wahnefried W(2)(3), Ganz PA(4), Colditz G(5), Rock CL(6),Rogers LQ(2)(3).Author information: (1)Institute for Cancer Outcomes and Survivorship, University of Alabama atBirmingham, South Birmingham, AL, USA.(2)University of Alabama at Birmingham, UAB Comprehensive Cancer Center,Birmingham, AL, USA.(3)Department of Nutrition Sciences, School of Medicine, University of Alabama atBirmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.(4)Departments of Health Care Organization and Policy and Medicine, Schools ofPublic Health and Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), JonssonComprehensive Cancer Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(5)Division of Public Health Sciences, School of Medicine, Washington University,St. Louis, MO, USA.(6)Department of Family Medicine and Public Health, School of Medicine,University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, San Diego, CA, USA.Background : Breast cancer survivors rank fatigue (e.g., decreased vitality) astheir number one concern affecting quality of life. Excess adiposity isassociated with decreased vitality in breast cancer survivors, yet weight lossintervention trials report inconsistent effects on this parameter.Methods : This is a secondary analysis of the Exercise and Nutrition to EnhanceRecovery and Good Health for You trial, in which 692 overweight or obese breastcancer survivors ≤5 years from diagnosis, initiated weight loss interventions,and completed assessments semi-annually for 2 years. Assessments included theGodin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire and the SF-36 MOS vitality subscale as an inverse measure of fatigue. Multilevel structural equation models estimatedthe direct effects of physical activity on vitality and indirect effects through body mass index (BMI) changes.Results : Within-person findings show that at assessments with greater physicalactivity, BMI was significantly lower (B = -0.07, p < 0.001) and vitality washigher (B = 0.22, p < 0.001). However, there was no direct relationship betweenlower BMI and higher vitality (B = -0.11, p = 0.262) after controlling for therelationship of physical activity with BMI and physical activity with vitality.The between-person indirect effect of physical activity change through BMI changeto vitality was significant (B = 0.03, p < 0.001). Participants whose physicalactivity was above the mean (B = 0.37, p < 0.001) and whose BMI was below themean (B = -1.05, p < 0.001) were more likely to report greater vitality.Conclusion : Improvements in vitality are primarily associated with increases in physical activity rather than BMI changes in this trial. Vitality was lower amongsurvivors with higher BMI, although within-individual changes in BMI had noeffect on vitality. Physical activity and weight loss share mechanistic links to vitality with physical activity potentially increasing (e.g., in an additive orsynergistic manner) the effect of BMI reduction on vitality.DOI: 10.1093/abm/kay004 PMID: 29617707 