77. Plast Surg (Oakv). 2017 Nov;25(4):275-283. doi: 10.1177/2292550317716126. Epub2017 Aug 22.Complementary and Alternative Medicines and Patients With Breast Cancer: A Caseof Mortality and Systematic Review of Patterns of Use in Patients With BreastCancer.Roumeliotis GA(1), Dostaler G(2), Boyd KU(1).Author information: (1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery,University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.(2)University of Ottawa School of Medicine, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.Background: The use of complementary and alternative medicines (CAMs) is commonamong women being treated for breast cancer. A recent mortality associated withCAM at our center precipitated a systematic review of the Cochrane, EMBASE, andPubMed databases to identify English manuscripts including "CAM" and "breastcancer."Methods: Papers included for review were selected based on predefined inclusionand exclusion criteria. The primary outcome was the use of CAM by women withbreast cancer. Secondary outcomes included timing of use along diseasetrajectory, attitudes toward CAM by allopathic practitioners, and patientdisclosure of CAM use to treating allopathic physicians.Results: Of 701 titles identified by the search strategy, 36 met the inclusioncriteria. The weighted average proportion of women with breast cancer who use CAMwas 40% (standard deviation: 18%). The diagnosis of breast cancer also promptsthe initiation or increase of CAM use. However, up to 84% of patients do notdisclose the use of CAM to their allopathic practitioners.Conclusions: Although CAM is often dismissed as a harmless addition to allopathictherapy, significant complications and interactions can occur. Our review and thedramatic case example provided highlight the need for physicians to educatethemselves regarding CAM and to engage with their patients regarding its use.Publisher: Les femmes traitées pour un cancer du sein utilisent souvent desapproches complémentaires et parallèles (ACP). Un récent décès lié àl’utilisation de telles approches, qui s’est produit au centre des chercheurs, a suscité une analyse systématique des bases de données Cochrane, EMBASE et PubMed pour en extraire les manuscrits anglophones incluant les termes complementary andalternative medicine et breast cancer.Les chercheurs ont retenu les articlesd’après des critères d’inclusion et d’exclusion prédéfinis. Les résultatsprimaires étaient l’utilisation d’ACP par des femmes atteintes du cancer du sein et les résultats secondaires, le moment de leur utilisation dans la trajectoirede la maladie, les attitudes des praticiens allopatiques envers les ACP et lefait que les patientes informaient ou non les médecins allopathiques qu’ellesutilisaient des ACP.Parmi les 701 articles obtenus par la stratégie de recherche,36 respectaient les critères d’inclusion. La moyenne pondérée de femmes atteintesd’un cancer du sein qui utilisaient des ACP s’élevait à 40 % (ÉT 18 %). Lediagnostic de cancer du sein incite les patientes à utiliser des ACP ou à enaccroître l’utilisation. Cependant, jusqu’à 84 % des patients n’informent pasleur praticien allopathique qu’elles utilisent des ACP.Les ACP sont souventconsidérées comme des ajouts inoffensifs au traitement allopathique, mais descomplications et des interactions importantes peuvent surgir. L’analyse deschercheurs et l’exemple d’un cas dramatique jettent la lumière sur la nécessitéque les médecins s’informent des ACP et discutent de leur utilisation avec leurs patientes.DOI: 10.1177/2292550317716126 PMCID: PMC5871066 [Available on 2018-11-01]PMID: 29619352 