177. PLoS One. 2018 Apr 3;13(4):e0193233. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193233.eCollection 2018.An exploratory, large-scale study of pain and quality of life outcomes in cancer patients with moderate or severe pain, and variables predicting improvement.Maximiano C(1), López I(2), Martín C(3), Zugazabeitia L(4), Martí-CiriquiánJL(5), Núñez MA(6), Contreras J(7), Herdman M(8), Traseira S(9), Provencio M(1).Author information: (1)Hospital Puerta de Hierro de Majadahonda, Medical Oncology, Madrid, Spain.(2)Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío, Medical Oncology, Sevilla, Spain.(3)Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Medical Oncology, Barcelona, Spain.(4)Hospital Povisa, Radiation Oncology, Pontevedra, Spain.(5)Hospital General Universitario de Alicante, Medical Oncology, Alicante, Spain.(6)Hospital Santa María Nai, Medical Oncology, Ourense, Spain.(7)Complejo Hospitalario Regional Carlos Haya, Radiation Oncology, Málaga, Spain.(8)Insight Consulting and Research, Barcelona, Spain.(9)Mundipharma Pharmaceuticals S.L., Medical Department, Madrid, Spain.BACKGROUND: There have been few large-scale, real world studies in Spain toassess change in pain and quality of life (QOL) outcomes in cancer patients with moderate to severe pain. This study aimed to assess changes on both outcomesafter 3 months of usual care and to investigate factors associated with change inQoL.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Large, multi-centre, observational study in patients withlung, head and neck, colorectal or breast cancer experiencing a first episode of moderate to severe pain while attending one of the participating centres. QoL wasassessed using the EuroQol-5D questionnaire and pain using the Brief PainInventory (BPI). Instruments were administered at baseline and after 3 months of follow up. Multivariate analyses were used to assess the impact of treatmentfactors, demographic and clinical variables, pain and other symptoms on QoLscores.RESULTS: 1711 patients were included for analysis. After 3 months of usual care, a significant improvement was observed in pain and QoL in all four cancer groups (p<0.001). Effect sizes were medium to large on the BPI and EQ-5D Index andVisual Analogue Scale (VAS). Improvements were seen on the majority of EQ-5Ddimensions in all patient groups, though breast cancer patients showed thelargest gains. Poorer baseline performance status (ECOG) and the presence ofanxiety/depression were associated with significantly poorer QOL outcomes.Improvements in BPI pain scores were associated with improved QoL.CONCLUSION: In the four cancer types studied, pain and QoL outcomes improvedconsiderably after 3 months of usual care. Improvements in pain made asubstantial contribution to QoL gains whilst the presence of anxiety anddepression and poor baseline performance status significantly constrainedimprovement.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193233 PMCID: PMC5882102PMID: 29614068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]