146. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2018 Jul 1;167:63-72. doi:10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.03.051. Epub 2018 Mar 30.Curcumin-loaded ultradeformable nanovesicles as a potential delivery system forbreast cancer therapy.Abdel-Hafez SM(1), Hathout RM(2), Sammour OA(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University, African Union Organization Street, Abbassia, Cairo, Egypt.(2)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University, African Union Organization Street, Abbassia, Cairo, Egypt.Electronic address: rania.hathout@pharma.asu.edu.eg.In the current study, the transdermal route has been investigated to deliver the poorly bioavailable drug; curcumin into the systemic circulation, aiming totarget both superficial and subcutaneous tumors such as the breast tumors.Accordingly, different colloidal carriers viz. ultradeformable nanovesiclescomprising various penetration enhancers were exploited. Curcumin-loadeddeformable vesicles were prepared by the thin film hydration method followed byextrusion. Sodium cholate and Tween 80 were set as standard edge activators andLabrasol, Transcutol, limonene and oleic acid were the penetration enhancers thatwere evaluated for their efficacy in skin permeation. The particle size and zeta potential of the prepared vesicles were significantly affected by the type ofsurfactant/penetration enhancer. The polydispersity measurements showed uniformparticle size distribution indicating the sufficiency of the extrusion cyclesperformed. Curcumin, as a hydrophobic molecule, was well accommodated within the lipid bilayers of the prepared vesicles with entrapment efficiency (EE%)percentages and drug loading percentages (DL%) as high as 93.91% and 7.04%,respectively. The ex-vivo permeation studies were performed on male albino miceskin mounted on Franz diffusion cells. Oleic acid and Transcutol exhibitedcomparable fluxes to sodium cholate and Tween 80 (∼16 μg cm-2 h-1), whereas thefluxes of Labrasol and limonene were significantly lower. Cytotoxicity studieswere performed using MTT assay on human breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7 cells).The results of the MTT assay demonstrated that oleic acid ultradeformablenanovesicles scored an IC50 of 20 μg/ml which introduce these new curcumin-loadednanovesicles as a successful delivery system for breast cancer therapy.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.03.051 PMID: 29626721 