130. J Med Phys. 2018 Jan-Mar;43(1):46-51. doi: 10.4103/jmp.JMP_40_17.Dosimetric Comparison of Treatment Plans Using Physical Wedge and EnhancedDynamic Wedge for the Planning of Breast Radiotherapy.Gopalakrishnan Z(1), Nair RK(1), Raghukumar P(1), Sarin B(1).Author information: (1)Division of Radiation Physics, Regional Cancer Centre, Trivandrum, Kerala,India.The aim of this study is to compare the physical wedge (PW) with enhanced dynamicwedge (EDW) to determine the difference in the dose distribution affecting thetreated breast and the contralateral breast, lungs, heart, esophagus, spine, and surrounding skin in the radiotherapy of breast cancer. Computed tomography (CT)data sets of 30 breast cancer patients were selected from the database for thestudy. The treatment plans which were executed with PW were re-planned with EDWwithout changing the beam parameters. Keeping the wedge angles same, the analyticanisotropic algorithm (AAA) with heterogeneity correction was used for dosecalculation in all plans. The prescription was 50 Gy in 25 fractions. The dose-volume histogram (DVH) of the planning target volume (PTV) and criticalstructures of both PW and EDW plans were analyzed. The analysis showed that themaximum dose within the target volume is higher in EDW plan compared to PW plan. However the PTV conformity index (CI) remained the same in both plans. For allthe critical structures, the EDW technique offered less dose compared to PWtechnique. The effect of volume of the contralateral breast on the dose tocontralateral breast and the effect of volume of PTV breast for patients withcarcinoma left breast on the dose to heart were studied and analyzed for the two wedges. No correlation between volumes and dose parameters was found for the two techniques. The number of monitor units to deliver a particular dose with EDWfield is less than that of PW field due to change in wedge factor. As EDWproduces less scattered dose to structures outside the treatment field, the risk of a second malignancy can be reduced with this technique.DOI: 10.4103/jmp.JMP_40_17 PMCID: PMC5879823PMID: 29628633 