200. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018 Mar 22;9:120. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00120.eCollection 2018.Nuclear Insulin-Like Growth Factor Binding Protein-3 As a Biomarker inTriple-Negative Breast Cancer Xenograft Tumors: Effect of Targeted Therapy andComparison With Chemotherapy.Julovi SM(1), Martin JL(1), Baxter RC(1).Author information: (1)Kolling Institute, University of Sydney, Royal North Shore Hospital, St.Leonards, Sydney, NSW, Australia.Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) typically has a worse outcome than otherbreast cancer subtypes, in part owing to a lack of approved therapeutic targetsor prognostic markers. We have previously described an oncogenic pathway inbasal-like TNBC cells, initiated by insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3), in which the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is transactivatedby sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) resulting from sphingosine kinase (SphK)-1activation. Oncogenic IGFBP-3 signaling can be targeted by combination treatment with the S1P receptor modulator and SphK inhibitor, fingolimod, and the EGFRkinase inhibitor, gefitinib (F + G). However, the interaction of this treatmentwith chemotherapy has not been documented. Since we observed nuclear localizationof IGFBP-3 in some TNBC tumors, this study aimed to evaluate the prognosticsignificance of nuclear IGFBP-3 in pre-clinical models of basal-like TNBC treatedwith F + G and doxorubicin. Orthotopic xenograft tumors were grown in nude micefrom the human basal-like TNBC cell lines MDA-MB-468 and HCC1806, and weretreated with gefitinib, 25 mg/Kg, plus fingolimod, 5 mg/Kg, 3-times weekly. Insome studies, doxorubicin was also administered once weekly for 6 weeks. Tumortissue proteins were quantitated by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Interactionbetween doxorubicin and F + G was also studied in proliferation assays in vitro. In both tumor models, tissue staining for IGFBP-3 was predominantly nuclear.Combination of F + G significantly enhanced mouse survival, decreased nuclearIGFBP-3 and Ki67 staining, and increased apoptosis (cleaved caspase-3) staining. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that a high tumor IGFBP-3 IHC score(>median), like a high Ki67 score, was significantly associated with shortersurvival time, whereas a high apoptosis score was associated with prolongedsurvival. Studied in vitro in both cell lines, low-dose doxorubicin that hadlittle effect alone, strongly enhanced the cytostatic effect of low-dose F + Gcombination. However, in both in vivo models, doxorubicin at maximum-tolerateddose neither inhibited tumor growth when administered alone, nor enhanced thesignificant inhibitory effect of F + G. We conclude that doxorubicin may not add benefit to the inhibitory effect of F + G unless its dose-limiting toxicity canbe overcome. Nuclear IGFBP-3 appears to have potential as a prognostic marker in TNBC and could be evaluated for clinical utility.DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00120 PMCID: PMC5874320PMID: 29623068 