144. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2018 Mar 28. pii: S0301-2115(18)30155-6. doi:10.1016/j.ejogrb.2018.03.057. [Epub ahead of print]The action of estrogens and progestogens in the young female breast.Zolfaroli I(1), Tarín JJ(2), Cano A(3).Author information: (1)Service of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital Clínico Universitario-INCLIVA, Av Blasco Ibáñez 17, 46010 Valencia, Spain.(2)Department of Cellular Biology, Functional Biology and Physical Anthropology, University of Valencia, C/Doctor Moliner, 50, 46100 Burjassot, Spain.(3)Service of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital Clínico Universitario-INCLIVA, Av Blasco Ibáñez 17, 46010 Valencia, Spain; Department of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Valencia, Av. Blasco Ibáñez, 15, 46010 Valencia,Spain. Electronic address: Antonio.cano@uv.es.Evidence from different sources sustains a pro-oncogenic role of hormones,estrogens and progestogens, on the breast. The issue is of interest for youngwomen, who are exposed to the hormonal changes imposed by the ovarian cycle and, often, take hormones with contraceptive purposes. Experimental and clinicalstudies show that both estrogens and progesterone are involved in mammarydevelopment during puberty and lactation, the changes being observed acrossmammalian species, including humans. Estrogen receptors, and more particularlythe alpha isoform, participate in molecular processes of stem cellsdifferentiation and epithelial proliferation through paracrine actionsimplicating growth factors. Progesterone also contributes through paracrinemechanisms involving one member of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) family, thereceptor activator of nuclear factor κB ligand (RANKL) and its receptor (RANK).Epidemiological studies have found that the length of the exposure to endogenous hormones, as determined by an early menarche or a late menopause, is a riskfactor for breast cancer. Additional evidence has derived from studies withcompounds modulating the estrogen or the progesterone receptors. Selectiveestrogen receptor modulators (SERM), like tamoxifen, have been shown to decrease the risk of breast cancer in both pre- and post-menopausal women. Aromataseinhibitors, which drastically reduce the levels of circulating estrogens, havereproduced the findings. The selective progesterone receptor modulators (SPRM)have been less investigated and issues concerning safety have arisen. Theseobservations have interest for young women. High-risk women may consider the use of SERMs, for example, to reduce their risk. Much more common is the case ofwomen who take hormones for contraception. The goal of the present article istwofold: i) to summarize the actual knowledge of the mechanisms implicatingestrogens and progestogens on the risk for breast cancer and ii) to providerationality for the debate about potential cancer risk of hormonalcontraceptives, frequently used by premenopausal women.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejogrb.2018.03.057 PMID: 29627127 