42. Nutrients. 2018 Apr 5;10(4). pii: E450. doi: 10.3390/nu10040450.Anti-Cancer Potential of Homemade Fresh Garlic Extract Is Related to IncreasedEndoplasmic Reticulum Stress.Petrovic V(1), Nepal A(2), Olaisen C(3), Bachke S(4), Hira J(5), Søgaard CK(6),Røst LM(7), Misund K(8), Andreassen T(9), Melø TM(10), Bartsova Z(11), BruheimP(12), Otterlei M(13).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. onagrus@yahoo.com.(2)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. Anala.Nepal@ntnu.no.(3)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. camilla.olaisen@ntnu.no.(4)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. Siri.Bachke@ntnu.no.(5)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. jonathanhira@gmail.com.(6)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. caroline.d.sogaard@ntnu.no.(7)Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty of Natural Sciences,NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway.lisa.m.rost@ntnu.no.(8)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. kristine.misund@ntnu.no.(9)MR core facility, Department of Circulation and Medical Imaging, Faculty ofMedicine and Health Sciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science andTechnology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. trygve.andreassen@ntnu.no.(10)Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty of Natural Sciences,NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway.torun.m.melo@ntnu.no.(11)Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty of Natural Sciences,NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway.zdenka.bartsova@ntnu.no.(12)Department of Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty of Natural Sciences,NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway.per.bruheim@ntnu.no.(13)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and HealthSciences, NTNU Norwegian University of Science and Technology, N-7491 Trondheim, Norway. Marit.Otterlei@ntnu.no.The use of garlic and garlic-based extracts has been linked to decreasedincidence of cancer in epidemiological studies. Here we examine the molecular andcellular activities of a simple homemade ethanol-based garlic extract (GE). Weshow that GE inhibits growth of several different cancer cells in vitro, as well as cancer growth in vivo in a syngeneic orthotopic breast cancer model. Multiple myeloma cells were found to be especially sensitive to GE. The GE wasfractionated using solid-phase extractions, and we identified allicin in one GEfraction; however, growth inhibitory activities were found in several additional fractions. These activities were lost during freeze or vacuum drying, suggesting that the main anti-cancer compounds in GE are volatile. The anti-cancer activity was stable for more than six months in &minus;20 &deg;C. We found that GEenhanced the activities of chemotherapeutics, as well as MAPK and PI3Kinhibitors. Furthermore, GE affected hundreds of proteins involved in cellularsignalling, including changes in vital cell signalling cascades regulatingproliferation, apoptosis, and the cellular redox balance. Our data indicate that the reduced proliferation of the cancer cells treated by GE is at least partlymediated by increased endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress.DOI: 10.3390/nu10040450 PMCID: PMC5946235PMID: 29621132 