165. BMC Public Health. 2018 Apr 6;18(1):460. doi: 10.1186/s12889-018-5357-1.Connecting the dots between breast cancer, obesity and alcohol consumption inmiddle-aged women: ecological and case control studies.Miller ER(1), Wilson C(2)(3), Chapman J(2), Flight I(2), Nguyen AM(4), FletcherC(2), Ramsey I(2).Author information: (1)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide,Australia. emma.miller@flinders.edu.au.(2)Flinders Centre for Innovation in Cancer, Flinders University , Adelaide,Australia.(3)Cancer Council of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia.(4)College of Medicine and Public Health, Flinders University, Adelaide,Australia.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) incidence in Australian women aged 45 to 64 years ('middle-aged') has tripled in the past 50 years, along with increasing alcoholconsumption and obesity in middle-age women. Alcohol and obesity have beenindividually associated with BC but little is known about how these factors mightinteract. Chronic psychological stress has been associated with, but not causallylinked to, BC. Here, alcohol could represent the 'missing link' - reflectingself-medication. Using an exploratory cross-sectional design, we investigatedinter-correlations of alcohol intake and overweight/obesity and their associationwith BC incidence in middle-aged women. We also explored the role of stress andvarious lifestyle factors in these relationships.METHODS: We analysed population data on BC incidence, alcohol consumption,overweight/obesity, and psychological stress. A case control study was conducted using an online survey. Cases (n = 80) were diagnosed with BC and controls(n = 235) were women in the same age range with no BC history. Participantsreported lifestyle data (including alcohol consumption, weight history) overconsecutive 10-year life periods. Data were analysed using a range of bivariateand multivariate techniques including correlation matrices, multivariate binomialregressions and multilevel logistic regression.RESULTS: Ecological inter-correlations were found between BC and alcoholconsumption and between BC and obesity but not between other variables in thematrix. Strong pairwise correlations were found between stress and alcohol andbetween stress and obesity. BMI tended to be higher in cases relative to controlsacross reported life history. Alcohol consumption was not associated withcase-control status. Few correlations were found between lifestyle factors andstress, although smoking and alcohol consumption were correlated in some periods.Obesity occurring during the ages of 31 to 40 years emerged as an independentpredictor of BC (OR 3.5 95% CI: 1.3-9.4).CONCLUSIONS: This study provides ecological evidence correlating obesity andalcohol consumption with BC incidence. Case-control findings suggest lifetime BMImay be important with particular risk associated with obesity prior to 40 yearsof age. Stress was ecologically linked to alcohol and obesity but not to BCincidence and was differentially correlated with alcohol and smoking among cases and controls. Our findings support prevention efforts targeting weight in womenbelow 40 years of age and, potentially, lifelong alcohol consumption to reduce BCrisk in middle-aged women.DOI: 10.1186/s12889-018-5357-1 PMCID: PMC5889566PMID: 29625601 