190. Psychooncology. 2018 Jun;27(6):1589-1596. doi: 10.1002/pon.4698. Epub 2018 Apr 5.Cost-effectiveness of the BRECONDA decision aid for women with breast cancer:Results from a randomized controlled trial.Parkinson B(1), Sherman KA(2)(3), Brown P(4), Shaw LE(2), Boyages J(5), CameronLD(4), Elder E(3), Lam T(5).Author information: (1)Centre for the Health Economy, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.(2)Centre for Emotional Health, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.(3)Westmead Breast Cancer Institute, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.(4)University of California, Merced, CA, USA.(5)Macquarie University Cancer Institute, Australian School of Advanced Medicine,Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.OBJECTIVE: To report on the cost-effectiveness of BRECONDA (Breast RECONstructionDecision Aid), a web-based decision aid to facilitate decisions regarding breast reconstruction surgery, with usual care for women with breast cancer.METHODS: The economic evaluation was conducted alongside a randomized controlled trial. Women diagnosed with breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ andeligible for breast reconstruction following mastectomy were randomized to accessBRECONDA for 6 months + usual care (n = 106) or usual care (n = 116) and wereassessed at baseline preintervention, and then 1-month and 6-monthspost-randomization. Decisional conflict, satisfaction with information,decisional regret, and utilities were assessed by using maximum-likelihood linearmixed effects models. Costs included the fixed costs of BRECONDA, health careprovider time, and health care resource use. Nonparametric bootstrapping was usedto estimate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.RESULTS: BRECONDA resulted in significantly less decisional conflict and greater satisfaction with information over time. Quality-adjusted life years did notdiffer between participants who received the decision aid compared with usualcare. The cost of BRECONDA was estimated to be small (AUD$10) relative to otherhealth care interventions and resulted in decreased health care costs overall(AUD$764). Based on the point estimates, the decision aid was more effective and less costly (dominant) for all measures of effectiveness. It was estimated thatthe decision aid has an 87% probability of being cost-effective at $60 000 perquality-adjusted life year gained.CONCLUSIONS: The BRECONDA web-based intervention designed to facilitate decisionsregarding breast reconstruction surgery is likely to be cost-effective comparedwith usual care for women with breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4698 PMID: 29623676 