45. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Jul 1;36(19):1994-2001. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.1914. Epub2018 Apr 5.Fertility Preservation in Patients With Cancer: ASCO Clinical Practice Guideline Update.Oktay K(1), Harvey BE(1), Partridge AH(1), Quinn GP(1), Reinecke J(1), TaylorHS(1), Wallace WH(1), Wang ET(1), Loren AW(1).Author information: (1)Kutluk Oktay and Hugh S. Taylor, Yale University School of Medicine, NewHaven, CT; Brittany E. Harvey, American Society of Clinical Oncology, Alexandria,VA; Ann H. Partridge, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA; Gwendolyn P.Quinn, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY; Joyce Reinecke,Alliance for Fertility Preservation, Lafayette; Erica T. Wang, Cedars-SinaiMedical Center, Los Angeles, CA; W. Hamish Wallace, The Hospital for SickChildren, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; Alison W. Loren, Perelman School of Medicineof the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.Purpose To provide current recommendations about fertility preservation foradults and children with cancer. Methods A systematic review of the literaturepublished from January 2013 to March 2017 was completed using PubMed and theCochrane Library. An Update Panel reviewed the identified publications. ResultsThere were 61 publications identified and reviewed. None of these publicationsprompted a significant change in the 2013 recommendations. Recommendations Healthcare providers should initiate the discussion on the possibility of infertilitywith patients with cancer treated during their reproductive years or withparents/guardians of children as early as possible. Providers should be prepared to discuss fertility preservation options and/or to refer all potential patients to appropriate reproductive specialists. Although patients may be focusedinitially on their cancer diagnosis, providers should advise patients regardingpotential threats to fertility as early as possible in the treatment process soas to allow for the widest array of options for fertility preservation. Thediscussion should be documented. Sperm, oocyte, and embryo cryopreservation areconsidered standard practice and are widely available. There is conflictingevidence to recommend gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonists (GnRHa) and other means of ovarian suppression for fertility preservation. The Panel recognizesthat, when proven fertility preservation methods are not feasible, and in thesetting of young women with breast cancer, GnRHa may be offered to patients inthe hope of reducing the likelihood of chemotherapy-induced ovarianinsufficiency. GnRHa should not be used in place of proven fertility preservationmethods. The panel notes that the field of ovarian tissue cryopreservation isadvancing quickly and may evolve to become standard therapy in the future.Additional information is available at www.asco.org/survivorship-guidelines .DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.1914 PMID: 29620997 