46. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018 Apr 5;4:CD002748. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD002748.pub4.Risk-reducing mastectomy for the prevention of primary breast cancer.Carbine NE(1), Lostumbo L, Wallace J, Ko H.Author information: (1)Translational Breast Cancer Research Consortium (TBCRC), Georgetown UniversityLombardi Cancer Center, Washington, D.C., USA, 20007.Update of    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Nov 10;(11):CD002748.BACKGROUND: Recent progress in understanding the genetic basis of breast cancerand widely publicized reports of celebrities undergoing risk-reducing mastectomy (RRM) have increased interest in RRM as a method of preventing breast cancer.This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2004 and previouslyupdated in 2006 and 2010.OBJECTIVES: (i) To determine whether risk-reducing mastectomy reduces death ratesfrom any cause in women who have never had breast cancer and in women who have a history of breast cancer in one breast, and (ii) to examine the effect ofrisk-reducing mastectomy on other endpoints, including breast cancer incidence,breast cancer mortality, disease-free survival, physical morbidity, andpsychosocial outcomes.SEARCH METHODS: For this Review update, we searched Cochrane Breast Cancer'sSpecialized Register, MEDLINE, Embase and the WHO International Clinical TrialsRegistry Platform (ICTRP) on 9 July 2016. We included studies in English.SELECTION CRITERIA: Participants included women at risk for breast cancer in atleast one breast. Interventions included all types of mastectomy performed forthe purpose of preventing breast cancer.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: At least two review authors independentlyabstracted data from each report. We summarized data descriptively; quantitative meta-analysis was not feasible due to heterogeneity of study designs andinsufficient reporting. We analyzed data separately for bilateral risk-reducingmastectomy (BRRM) and contralateral risk-reducing mastectomy (CRRM). Four review authors assessed the methodological quality to determine whether or not themethods used sufficiently minimized selection bias, performance bias, detectionbias, and attrition bias.MAIN RESULTS: All 61 included studies were observational studies with somemethodological limitations; randomized trials were absent. The studies presented data on 15,077 women with a wide range of risk factors for breast cancer, whounderwent RRM.Twenty-one BRRM studies looking at the incidence of breast canceror disease-specific mortality, or both, reported reductions after BRRM,particularly for those women with BRCA1/2 mutations. Twenty-six CRRM studiesconsistently reported reductions in incidence of contralateral breast cancer but were inconsistent about improvements in disease-specific survival. Seven studies attempted to control for multiple differences between intervention groups andshowed no overall survival advantage for CRRM. Another study showed significantlyimproved survival following CRRM, but after adjusting for bilateral risk-reducingsalpingo-oophorectomy (BRRSO), the CRRM effect on all-cause mortality was nolonger significant.Twenty studies assessed psychosocial measures; most reportedhigh levels of satisfaction with the decision to have RRM but greater variationin satisfaction with cosmetic results. Worry over breast cancer was significantlyreduced after BRRM when compared both to baseline worry levels and to the groups who opted for surveillance rather than BRRM, but there was diminishedsatisfaction with body image and sexual feelings.Seventeen case series reporting on adverse events from RRM with or without reconstruction reported rates ofunanticipated reoperations from 4% in those without reconstruction to 64% inparticipants with reconstruction.In women who have had cancer in one breast,removing the other breast may reduce the incidence of cancer in that otherbreast, but there is insufficient evidence that this improves survival because ofthe continuing risk of recurrence or metastases from the original cancer.Additionally, thought should be given to other options to reduce breast cancerrisk, such as BRRSO and chemoprevention, when considering RRM.AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: While published observational studies demonstrated thatBRRM was effective in reducing both the incidence of, and death from, breastcancer, more rigorous prospective studies are suggested. BRRM should beconsidered only among those at high risk of disease, for example, BRCA1/2carriers. CRRM was shown to reduce the incidence of contralateral breast cancer, but there is insufficient evidence that CRRM improves survival, and studies that control for multiple confounding variables are recommended. It is possible thatselection bias in terms of healthier, younger women being recommended for orchoosing CRRM produces better overall survival numbers for CRRM. Given the numberof women who may be over-treated with BRRM/CRRM, it is critical that women andclinicians understand the true risk for each individual woman before considering surgery. Additionally, thought should be given to other options to reduce breast cancer risk, such as BRRSO and chemoprevention when considering RRM.DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002748.pub4 PMID: 29620792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]