57. Oncol Rep. 2018 Jun;39(6):2482-2498. doi: 10.3892/or.2018.6332. Epub 2018 Mar 23.Translational control of the undifferentiated phenotype in ER‑positive breasttumor cells: Cytoplasmic localization of ERα and impact of IRES inhibition.Vaklavas C(1), Zinn KR(1), Samuel SL(1), Meng Z(1), Grizzle WE(1), Choi H(1),Blume SW(1).Author information: (1)Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.Using a series of potential biomarkers relevant to mechanisms of proteinsynthesis, we observed that estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast tumor cellsexist in two distinct yet interconvertible phenotypic states (of roughly equalproportion) which differ in the degree of differentiation and use ofIRES-mediated translation. Nascently translated IGF1R in the cytoplasm positivelycorrelated with IRES activity and the undifferentiated phenotype, while epitopeaccessibility of RACK1, an integral component of the 40S ribosomal subunit,aligned with the more differentiated IRES-off state. When deprived of solublegrowth factors, the entire tumor cell population shifted to the undifferentiated phenotype in which IRES-mediated translation was active, facilitating survivalunder these adverse microenvironmental conditions. However, if IRES-mediatedtranslation was inhibited, the cells instead were forced to transition uniformly to the more differentiated state. Notably, cytoplasmic localization of estrogenreceptor α (ERα/ESR1) precisely mirrored the pattern observed with nascent IGF1R,correlating with the undifferentiated IRES-active phenotype. Inhibition ofIRES-mediated translation resulted in both a shift in ERα to the nucleus(consistent with differentiation) and a marked decrease in ERα abundance(consistent with the inhibition of ERα synthesis via its IRES). Although breasttumor cells tolerated forced differentiation without extensive loss of theirviability, their reproductive capacity was severely compromised. In addition,CDK1 was decreased, connexin 43 eliminated and Myc translation altered as aconsequence of IRES inhibition. Isolated or low-density ER-positive breast tumor cells were particularly vulnerable to IRES inhibition, losing the ability togenerate viable cohesive colonies, or undergoing massive cell death.Collectively, these results provide further evidence for the integralrelationship between IRES-mediated translation and the undifferentiated phenotypeand demonstrate how therapeutic manipulation of this specialized mode of protein synthesis may be used to limit the phenotypic plasticity and incapacitate oreliminate these otherwise highly resilient breast tumor cells.DOI: 10.3892/or.2018.6332 PMCID: PMC5983923PMID: 29620220 