Conflict of interest statement: Nothing to declare.126. Front Immunol. 2018 Mar 23;9:493. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00493. eCollection2018.Evaluation of Antigen-Conjugated Fluorescent Beads to Identify Antigen-Specific BCells.Correa I(1)(2), Ilieva KM(1)(2)(3), Crescioli S(1)(2), Lombardi S(1), FiginiM(4), Cheung A(1)(3), Spicer JF(5), Tutt ANJ(3)(6), Nestle FO(1)(2)(7),Karagiannis P(1)(2)(8), Lacy KE(1), Karagiannis SN(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)St. John's Institute of Dermatology, School of Basic & Medical Biosciences,King's College London, Guy's Hospital, London, United Kingdom.(2)NIHR Biomedical Research Centre at Guy's and St. Thomas's Hospitals and King'sCollege London, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.(3)Breast Cancer Now Research Unit, School of Cancer & Pharmaceutical Sciences,King's College London, Guy's Cancer Centre, London, United Kingdom.(4)Department of Applied Research and Technology Development, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.(5)School of Cancer & Pharmaceutical Sciences, King's College London, Guy'sHospital, London, United Kingdom.(6)Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research Centre, Institute of Cancer Research,London, United Kingdom.(7)Immunology and Inflammation Therapeutic Research Area, Sanofi US, Cambridge,MA, United States.(8)Department of Oncology, Haematology and Stem Cell Transplantation, University Hospital of Hamburg Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.Selection of single antigen-specific B cells to identify their expressedantibodies is of considerable interest for evaluating human immune responses.Here, we present a method to identify single antibody-expressing cells usingantigen-conjugated fluorescent beads. To establish this, we selected FolateReceptor alpha (FRα) as a model antigen and a mouse B cell line, expressing both the soluble and the membrane-bound forms of a human/mouse chimeric antibody(MOv18 IgG1) specific for FRα, as test antibody-expressing cells. Beads wereconjugated to FRα using streptavidin/avidin-biotin bridges and used to selectsingle cells expressing the membrane-bound form of anti-FRα. Bead-bound cellswere single cell-sorted and processed for single cell RNA retrotranscription and PCR to isolate antibody heavy and light chain variable regions. Variable regions were then cloned and expressed as human IgG1/k antibodies. Like the originalclone, engineered antibodies from single cells recognized native FRα. To evaluatewhether antigen-coated beads could identify specific antibody-expressing cells inmixed immune cell populations, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)were spiked with test antibody-expressing cells. Antigen-specific cells couldcomprise up to 75% of cells selected with antigen-conjugated beads when thefrequency of the antigen-positive cells was 1:100 or higher. In PBMC pools, beadsconjugated to recombinant antigens FRα and HER2 bound antigen-specific anti-FRαMOv18 and anti-HER2 Trastuzumab antibody-expressing cells, respectively. Frommelanoma patient-derived B cells selected with melanoma cell line-derivedprotein-coated fluorescent beads, we generated a monoclonal antibody thatrecognized melanoma antigen-coated beads. This approach may be further developed to facilitate analysis of B cells and their antibody profiles at the single cell level and to help unravel humoral immune repertoires.DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00493 PMCID: PMC5876289PMID: 29628923 