Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors declare thatthey have no competing interests.123. J Breast Cancer. 2018 Mar;21(1):11-20. doi: 10.4048/jbc.2018.21.1.11. Epub 2018Mar 23.Isomangiferin, a Novel Potent Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor 2Kinase Inhibitor, Suppresses Breast Cancer Growth, Metastasis and Angiogenesis.Wang B(1), Shen J(2)(3), Wang Z(1), Liu J(4), Ning Z(1), Hu M(1).Author information: (1)Research Center of Basic Medical Sciences, School of Basic Medical Sciences,Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning, China.(2)Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for BiologicalSciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.(3)Cancer Center, Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute, La Jolla,USA.(4)Department of Optoelectronic Engineering, School of Electrical and InformationEngineering, Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning, China.Purpose: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signal transduction mainlydepends on its binding to VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR-2). VEGF downstream signalingproteins mediate several of its effects in cancer progression, including those ontumor growth, metastasis, and blood vessel formation. The activation of VEGFR-2signaling is a hallmark of and is considered a therapeutic target for breastcancer. Here, we report a study of the regulation of the VEGFR-2 signalingpathway by a small molecule, isomangiferin.Methods: A human breast cancer xenograft mouse model was used to investigate the efficacy of isomangiferin in vivo. The inhibitory effect of isomangiferin onbreast cancer cells and the underlying mechanism were examined in vitro.Results: Isomangiferin suppressed tumor growth in xenografts. In vitro,isomangiferin treatment inhibited cancer cell proliferation, migration, invasion,and adhesion. The effect of isomangiferin on breast cancer growth was wellcoordinated with its suppression of angiogenesis. A rat aortic ring assayrevealed that isomangiferin significantly inhibited blood vessel formation duringVEGF-induced microvessel sprouting. Furthermore, isomangiferin treatmentinhibited VEGF-induced proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cellsand the formation of capillary-like structures. Mechanistically, isomangiferininduced caspase-dependent apoptosis of breast cancer cells. Furthermore,VEGF-induced activation of the VEGFR-2 kinase pathway was down-regulated byisomangiferin.Conclusion: Our findings demonstrate that isomangiferin exerts anti-breast cancereffects via the functional inhibition of VEGFR-2. Pharmaceutically targetingVEGFR-2 by isomangiferin could be an effective therapeutic strategy for breastcancer.DOI: 10.4048/jbc.2018.21.1.11 PMCID: PMC5880961PMID: 29628979 