191. Pharmacoecon Open. 2018 Jun;2(2):97-107. doi: 10.1007/s41669-017-0040-5.Does Methodological Guidance Produce Consistency? A Review of MethodologicalConsistency in Breast Cancer Utility Value Measurement in NICE Single Technology Appraisals.Rose M(1), Rice S(2), Craig D(2).Author information: (1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, University of Southampton,The University of Southampton Science Park, Alpha House, Enterprise Road,Southampton, SO16 7NS, UK. m.j.rose@southampton.ac.uk.(2)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, The Baddiley-ClarkBuilding, Richardson Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE2 4AX, UK.Since 2004, National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE)methodological guidance for technology appraisals has emphasised a strongpreference for using the validated EuroQol 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D) quality-of-lifeinstrument, measuring patient health status from patients or carers, and usingthe general public's preference-based valuation of different health states whenassessing health benefits in economic evaluations. The aim of this study was toreview all NICE single technology appraisals (STAs) for breast cancer treatments to explore consistency in the use of utility scores in light of NICEmethodological guidance. A review of all published breast cancer STAs wasundertaken using all publicly available STA documents for each includedassessment. Utility scores were assessed for consistency with NICE-preferredmethods and original data sources. Furthermore, academic assessment group workundertaken during the STA process was examined to evaluate the emphasis ofNICE-preferred quality-of-life measurement methods. Twelve breast cancer STAswere identified, and many STAs used evidence that did not follow NICE's preferredutility score measurement methods. Recent STA submissions show companies usingEQ-5D and mapping. Academic assessment groups rarely emphasized NICE-preferredmethods, and queries about preferred methods were rare. While there appears to bea trend in recent STA submissions towards following NICE methodological guidance,historically STA guidance in breast cancer has generally not used NICE'spreferred methods. Future STAs in breast cancer and reviews of older guidanceshould ensure that utility measurement methods are consistent with the NICEreference case to help produce consistent, equitable decision making.DOI: 10.1007/s41669-017-0040-5 PMCID: PMC5972112PMID: 29623616 