46. Int J Cancer. 2018 Apr 6. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31420. [Epub ahead of print]As you like it: How the same data can support manifold views of overdiagnosis in breast cancer screening.Njor SH(1)(2), Paci E(3), Rebolj M(4).Author information: (1)Department of Public Health Programmes, Randers Regional Hospital, Randers,Denmark.(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.(3)Former: ISPO Cancer Prevention and Research Institute, Florence, Italy.(4)Centre for Cancer Prevention, Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine, Barts & The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London,London, United Kingdom.Overdiagnosis estimates have varied substantially, causing confusion. Thediscussions have been complicated by the fact that population and study designhave varied substantially between studies. To help assess the impact of studydesign choices on the estimates, we compared them on a single population. Acohort study from Funen County, Denmark, recently suggested little (∼1%)overdiagnosis. It followed previously screened women for up to 14 years afterscreening had ended. Using publically available data from Funen, we recreated thedesigns from five high-estimate, highly cited studies from various countries.Selected studies estimated overdiagnosis to be 25-54%. Their designs were adaptedonly to the extent that they reflect the start of screening in Funen in 1993. Thereanalysis of the Funen data resulted in overdiagnosis estimates that wereremarkably similar to those from the original high-estimate age-period studies,21-55%. In additional analyses, undertaken to elucidate the effect of theindividual components of the study designs, overdiagnosis estimates were morethan halved after the most likely changes in the background risk were accountedfor and decreased additionally when never-screened birth cohorts were excludedfrom the analysis. The same data give both low and high estimates ofoverdiagnosis, it all depends on the study design. This stresses the need for acareful scrutiny of the validity of the assumptions underpinning the estimates.Age-period analyses of breast cancer overdiagnosis suggesting very highfrequencies of overdiagnosis rested on unmet assumptions. This study showed that overdiagnosis estimates should in the future be requested to adequately controlfor the background risk and include an informative selection of the studiedpopulation to achieve valid and comparable estimates of overdiagnosis.© 2018 UICC.DOI: 10.1002/ijc.31420 PMID: 29633249 