76. Cesk Patol. 2018 Spring;54(1):13-16.[Predictive diagnosis in breast cancer - Whats new in 2018?][Article in Czech]Ryška A.Detection of predictive markers in breast carcinoma has undergone significantchanges, the most important ones - at least in the context of Czech Republic -are related to the detection of HER2 - detection of both over-expression ofoncoprotein HER-2/neu and amplification of the c-erbB-2 gene, respectively. Inthe Czech Republic, immunohistochemical testing is performed as a method of firstchoice, followed, if needed, by in situ hybridization. The update of theguidelines published in 2013 decreased the threshold for positive tumor cellsfrom 30% to 10%, shifted the threshold for gene amplification (HER2/CEP17 ratio) from 2.2 to 2.0 and slightly changed criteria for classification of expression as2+. These changes resulted in relatively significant increase of cases classifiedas "borderline" or "equivocal", requiring confirmation by in situ hybridization. In order to reduce the risk of false results, the cases diagnosed as positive in small (primary) laboratories, have to be confirmed in one of the large centrallaboratories. This confirmation of HER2 positivity is required before targetedtherapy can be started. HER2 testing is recommended in core-cut biopsiesvirtually always; it is absolutely essential in patients undergoing neoadjuvantsystemic therapy. In patients treated primarily by surgery can be the testingperformed either in the core cut biopsy or in the final resection specimen.However, it should be kept in mind that the accuracy of some parameters in thecore-cut biopsies may be limited, even in cases not influenced by the neoadjuvantchemotherapy (NACHT). The degree of concordance between results of moleculartests in the core-cut biopsy and resection specimen can achieve only 67 % and theprecise concordance of histological typing reaches only 84 %, respectively; theconcordance of HER2 expression, on the other hand, reaches more than 90%. Inpatients with positive HER2 result in core-cut biopsy, it is no longer requiredto repeat the testing in the resection specimen, whereas in case of HER2 negativecore-cut biopsy, it is required to repeat the test from resection specimen tominimize the risk of false negative result. The probability of pathologicalcomplete response (pCR) varies in individual breast carcinoma subtypes - itreaches 27-51% in triple-negative and HER2+ cases, while in hormone-dependenttumors, namely in those with low proliferative activity, it is significantlylower. Even within the HER2+ carcinoma subgroup, the probability of pCR varies.HER2+ tumors co-expressing ER and PR have a lower rate of pCR than HER2+carcinomas without co-expression of hormonal receptors. Carcinomas expressinghigh-molecular weight keratins (CK14, CK 5/6) with basal phenotype or tumors withmutations of HER2/AKT signal pathway (PI3K, PTEN) have also lower response totreatment and worse prognosis.PMID: 29631406 