27. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2018 May 2;10(17):14577-14593. doi:10.1021/acsami.8b03477. Epub 2018 Apr 17.Stable Dispersions of Covalently Tethered Polymer Improved Graphene OxideNanoconjugates as an Effective Vector for siRNA Delivery.Yadav N, Kumar N, Prasad P, Shirbhate S, Sehrawat S(1), Lochab B.Author information: (1)Department of Medicine , Harvard Medical School , Boston , Massachusetts 02115, United States.Conjugates of poly(amidoamine) (PAMAM) with modified graphene oxide (GO) areattractive nonviral vectors for gene-based cancer therapeutics. GO protects siRNAfrom enzymatic cleavage and showed reasonable transfection efficiency along with simultaneous benefits of low cost and large scale production. PAMAM is highlyeffective in siRNA delivery but suffers from high toxicity with poor in vivoefficacy. Co-reaction of GO and PAMAM led to aggregation and more importantly,have detrimental effect on stability of dispersion at physiological pH preventingtheir exploration at clinical level. In the current work, we have designed,synthesized, characterized and explored a new type of hybrid vector (GPD), using GO synthesized via improved method which was covalently tethered withpoly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) and PAMAM. The existence of covalent linkage,relative structural changes and properties of GPD is well supported by Fouriertransform infrared (FTIR), UV-visible (UV-vis), Raman, X-ray photoelectron (XPS),elemental analysis, powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), thermogravimetry analysis(TGA), dynamic light scattering (DLS), and zeta potential. Scanning electronmicroscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) of GPD showedlongitudinally aligned columnar self-assembled ∼10 nm thick polymericnanoarchitectures onto the GO surface accounting to an average size reduction to ∼20 nm. GPD revealed an outstanding stability in both phosphate buffer saline(PBS) and serum containing cell medium. The binding efficiency of EPAC1 siRNA to GPD was supported by gel retardation assay, DLS, zeta potential andphotoluminescence (PL) studies. A lower cytotoxicity with enhanced cellularuptake and homogeneous intracellular distribution of GPD/siRNA complex isconfirmed by imaging studies. GPD exhibited a higher transfection efficiency withremarkable inhibition of cell migration and lower invasion than PAMAM andLipofectamine 2000 suggesting its role in prevention of breast cancer progressionand metastasis. A significant reduction in the expression of the specific proteinagainst which siRNA was delivered is revealed by Western blot assay. Furthermore,a pH-triggered release of siRNA from the GPD/siRNA complex was studied to providea mechanistic insight toward unloading of siRNA from the vector. Current strategyis a way forward for designing effective therapeutic vectors for gene-basedantitumor therapy.DOI: 10.1021/acsami.8b03477 PMID: 29634909 