36. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2018 Mar 31;90(1):72-73. doi: 10.4081/aiua.2018.1.72.Metastasis of the epididymis and spermatic cord from pancreatic adenocarcinoma: Arare entity. Description of a case and revision of literature.Di Franco CA(1), Rovereto B, Porru D, Zoccarato V, Regina C, Cebrelli T, FiorelloN, Viglio A, Galvagno L, Marchetti C, Ringressi A, Barletta D, Giliberto G.Author information: (1)Department of Urology, University Hospital IRCCS Policlinico S.Matteo ofPavia. carmelo_difranco@tiscali.it.INTRODUCTION: Metastatic epididymal and spermatic cord adenocarcinoma fromepithelial tumors are a rare condition. The most frequent primary cancers areprostate, lung, kidney, gastrointestinal tumors and breast. In literature, there are very low number of cases reporting metastasis from pancreatic cancer toepididymis and spermatic cord.CASE DESCRIPTION: We report a case of 70-years old man with history of leftorchiectomy for undescended testicle, who presented to our department with apalpable nodule in the right scrotum. Scrotal ultrasound revealed aninhomogeneous hypoechoic nodule of epididymis and/or spermatic cord. Neoplasticmarkers showed high levels of CEA (carcinoembryonic antigen) and bHCG (beta HumanChorionic Gonadotropin). The patient underwent right surgical scrotal explorationwith orchifunicolectomy. Pathologic examination revealed pathologic tissueshowing rare glandular structures. Immunohistochemistry profile was compatiblewith malign epithelial neoplasm with glandular differentiation. Total bodyCT-scan revealed pathologic tissue in pancreas between head and body and asuspect pathologic lesion in liver and 18-FDG PET-scan confirmed the pancreaticneoplastic mass and a suspect secondary hepatic lesion. Biopsy of pancreaticpathologic area was positive for ductal pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The patientwas sent to oncologic evaluation and started chemotherapy.CONCLUSIONS: Malignancies of epididymis and spermatic cord are rare entities and,in literature, very low number of cases of metastasis from pancreatic carcinomato epididymis and spermatic cord are described. Early differential diagnosis isfundamental mostly in those patients with age range unusual for testis cancers.DOI: 10.4081/aiua.2018.1.72 PMID: 29633804 