23. Eur J Cancer. 2018 May;95:59-67. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2018.03.014. Epub 2018 Apr7.Treatment decisions and the impact of adverse events before and during extendedendocrine therapy in postmenopausal early breast cancer.Blok EJ(1), Kroep JR(2), Meershoek-Klein Kranenbarg E(3), Duijm-de CarpentierM(3), Putter H(4), Liefers GJ(3), Nortier JWR(2), Rutgers EJT(5), Seynaeve CM(6),van de Velde CJH(7); IDEAL and TEAM Study Groups.Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, TheNetherlands; Department of Medical Oncology, Leiden University Medical Center,Leiden, The Netherlands.(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.(3)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, TheNetherlands.(4)Department of Medical Statistics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden,The Netherlands.(5)Department of Surgery, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands.(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, TheNetherlands.(7)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, TheNetherlands. Electronic address: c.j.h.van_de_velde@lumc.nl.BACKGROUND: Extended endocrine therapy beyond 5 years for postmenopausal breastcancer has been studied within multiple phase III trials. Treatment compliance inthese trials is generally poor. In this analysis, we aimed to determine factorsthat were associated with participation in the phase III Investigation on theDuration of Extended Adjuvant Letrozole (IDEAL) trial and with early treatmentdiscontinuation, and how this influenced survival outcome.METHODS: In the IDEAL trial, postmenopausal patients were randomised between 2.5 or 5 years of extended letrozole, after completing 5 years of endocrine therapyfor hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. A subgroup of this population participated earlier in the Tamoxifen Exemestane Adjuvant Multinational trial (5 years of exemestane or 2.5 years of tamoxifen followed by exemestane as primaryadjuvant therapy) in which we explored which factors were determinative forenrolment in the IDEAL study. In the IDEAL cohort, we evaluated which factorspredicted for early treatment discontinuation and the effect of early treatmentdiscontinuation on disease-free survival (DFS).RESULTS: Nodal status, younger age and adjuvant chemotherapy were significantlyassociated with higher enrolment in the IDEAL trial. In the IDEAL cohort, adverseevents (AEs), the type of primary endocrine therapy and the interval betweenprimary and extended therapy were associated with early treatmentdiscontinuation. Among the reported AEs, depressive feelings (56%) were mostfrequently associated with early treatment discontinuation. Early treatmentdiscontinuation was not associated with worse DFS (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.02, 95% confidence interval = 0.76-1.37).CONCLUSIONS: In this analysis, we found that risk factors were most stronglyassociated enrolment in the IDEAL trial. In contrast, patient experiences werethe most significant factors leading to early treatment discontinuation, with no effect on DFS.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2018.03.014 PMID: 29635145 