80. Breast. 2018 Jun;39:80-88. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.03.006. Epub 2018 Apr 6.HER2-positive breast cancer: Current and new therapeutic strategies.Escrivá-de-Romaní S(1), Arumí M(2), Bellet M(3), Saura C(4).Author information: (1)Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO),Spain. Electronic address: sescriva_de_romani@vhebron.net.(2)Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO),Spain. Electronic address: marumi@vhio.net.(3)Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO),Spain. Electronic address: mbellet@vhio.net.(4)Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO),Spain. Electronic address: csaura@vhio.net.Since the identification of the HER2 receptor amplification as an adverseprognostic factor that defined a special subtype of metastatic breast cancer,there has been a substantial improvement in survival of patients affected withthis disease due to the development of anti-HER2 targeted therapies. The approvalof trastuzumab and pertuzumab associated to a taxane in first line and subsequenttreatment with the antibody-drug conjugate T-DM1 has certainly contributed toachieve these outcomes. The Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor lapatinib was also approvedin the basis of an improvement in progression free survival, becoming anothercommonly used treatment in combination with capecitabine. Inevitably, despitethese therapeutic advances most patients progress on therapy due to primary oracquired resistance or because of an incorrect HER2 positivity assessment. Hence,it is crucial to correctly categorize HER2 amplified tumors and define mechanismsof resistance to design effective new treatment approaches. In addition,identifying biomarkers of response or resistance permits to tailor thetherapeutic options for each patient sparing them from unnecessary toxicity aswell as improving their outcomes. The aim of this review is to examine newstrategies in development to treat HER2-positive metastatic breast cancerreferring to the mechanisms of action of new drugs and new combinations includingresults reported so far.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.03.006 PMID: 29631097 