110. Disabil Rehabil. 2018 Apr 12:1-8. doi: 10.1080/09638288.2018.1460877. [Epub aheadof print]Comparing exercise responses to aerobic plus resistance training betweenpostmenopausal breast cancer survivors undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapy andhealthy women.Paulo TRS(1)(2)(3), Winters-Stone KM(4), Viezel J(1)(2), Rossi FE(1)(2), AroBL(1), Trindade ACAC(1), Codogno JS(1)(2), Freitas Junior IF(1)(2).Author information: (1)a School of Technology and Sciences , State University (UNESP) , PresidentePrudente , Sao Paulo , Brazil.(2)b Institute of Biosciences , State University (UNESP) , Sao Paulo , Brazil.(3)c University Federal do Amazonas, UFAM , Parintins , Brazil.(4)d School of Nursing , Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health & ScienceUniversity , Portland , OR , USA.BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to explore whether postmenopausal breastcancer survivors undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapy differ from healthypostmenopausal women in their response to the same aerobic + resistance training.METHODS: The participants were separated into two groups: postmenopausal breastcancer survivors undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapy for an average of 20months (18 women) and healthy postmenopausal women (24 women). We assessedaerobic capacity (predicted maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) and maximum runningvelocity test (Vmax)) through a walking test, upper and lower body musclestrength using an estimated one-repetition maximum test, and body composition by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry at baseline and at three, six, and nine months, respectively. The exercise program was performed three times/week over ninemonths and consisted of 40 min of machine-based strength training (seated cablerow, bench press, leg extension, leg press, and leg curl, as well as bridge,abdominal, and standard plank exercises) followed by 30 min of treadmill walking.Analysis of variance (ANOVA) with repeated measures was used to compare thegroups over time.RESULTS: Postmenopausal breast cancer survivors undergoing aromatase inhibitortherapy and healthy postmenopausal women presented similar improvements inestimated lower body strength, predicted VO2max and Vmax, and body fat mass. For maximal upper body strength, there was a significant group x time interactionafter six months of training (p = 0.01). The healthy postmenopausal womenpresented a significant increase in upper body strength after six months, whilepostmenopausal breast cancer survivors undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapydemonstrated an improvement only at nine months of training. The breast cancersurvivors undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapy presented increased lean masswhile healthy postmenopausal women maintained values over time (Breast cancer:33.7 ± 3.9(Pre) vs. 34.1 ± 3.4 kg (Post) and healthy women: 36.4 ± 5.1 (Pre) vs. 36.4 ± 5.0 kg (Post), p = 0.004).CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that postmenopausal women undergoing aromataseinhibitor therapy for breast cancer demonstrated adaptations and similartrainability to the same regimen of resistance + aerobic training as healthypostmenopausal women. Implications for Rehabilitation Combined exercise program(aerobic plus resistance) is an important non-pharmacological strategies toimprove strength, aerobic capacity, and body composition in breast cancersurvivors undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapy. Furthermore, it is important tohighlight that the time of intervention seems to influence the upper bodystrength response in this population. This study showed that trainers and otherspecialists do not need to modify the prescription of exercise related to healthywomen, since the combined exercise program induced similar benefits in strength, aerobic capacity, and body composition in postmenopausal breast cancer survivors undergoing aromatase inhibitor therapy and healthy postmenopausal women.DOI: 10.1080/09638288.2018.1460877 PMID: 29644889 