106. Psychooncology. 2018 Jul;27(7):1816-1824. doi: 10.1002/pon.4732. Epub 2018 May 1.Exploring cancer survivors' views of health behaviour change: "Where do youstart, where do you stop with everything?"Corbett T(1), Cheetham T(1), Müller AM(2), Slodkowska-Barabasz J(1), Wilde L(3), Krusche A(1), Richardson A(4)(5), Foster C(4), Watson E(6), Little P(7), Yardley L(1)(8), Bradbury K(1).Author information: (1)School of Psychology, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.(2)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore,Singapore.(3)Centre for Innovative Research Across the Life Course, Faculty of Health andLife Sciences, Coventry University, Coventry, UK.(4)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.(5)University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, UK.(6)School of Nursing and Midwifery Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, OxfordBrookes University, Oxford, UK.(7)Primary Care, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.(8)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford,Oxford, UK.OBJECTIVE: Physical activity (PA) and a healthy diet can improve the well-beingof cancer survivors. However, cancer survivors often do not engage in thesebehaviours. This study aimed to explore barriers and facilitators to engaging in these behaviours following cancer treatment.METHODS: During the development of a Web-based intervention to enhancehealth-related quality of life in cancer survivors, 32 people who had completedtreatment for breast, colon, or prostate cancer were presented with anintervention for PA and healthy eating. In-depth think-aloud and semi-structured interviewing techniques were used to elicit perceptions of both behaviours. Data were analysed using thematic analysis.RESULTS: Some individuals reported implementing positive health behaviour changesto maintain health and prevent recurrence, or to help them to move forward after cancer. However, others reported feeling abandoned, and many did not report anintention to engage in lifestyle changes. Individuals discussed contextual andhealth-related barriers that were specifically linked to their situation aspost-treatment cancer survivors: individuals described uncertainty about how toimplement adaptive changes and perceived a lack of support from health careproviders. Others viewed behaviour change as unnecessary or undesirable, withsome arguing that non-modifiable factors contributed more to their cancerdiagnosis than lifestyle-related factors.CONCLUSIONS: For many participants in this study, the period that followstreatment for cancer did not represent a "teachable moment." A variety of complexand heterogeneous factors appeared to impact motivation and may limit cancersurvivors from engaging with diet and PA changes.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4732 PMID: 29645327 