102. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2018 Jul;142(1):23e-33e. doi: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000004503.Ganoderma lucidum Polysaccharide Peptide Attenuates Skin FlapIschemia-Reperfusion Injury in a Thioredoxin-Dependent Manner.Ren H(1), Meng X, Yin J, Sun J, Huang Q, Yin Z.Author information: (1)Tianjin and Changchun, People's Republic of China From the Department ofBreast Oncoplastic Surgery, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute andHospital; the National Clinical Research Center for Cancer; Key Laboratory ofCancer Prevention and Therapy; Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer; theDepartment of Pharmacology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tianjin MedicalUniversity; and the Endoscopy Center, China-Japan Union Hospital of JilinUniversity.BACKGROUND: Thioredoxin-1 plays an important role in protecting the skin flapfrom ischemia-reperfusion injury. Ganoderma lucidum polysaccharide peptide is themajor component of G. lucidum, which possesses potent antioxidant andantiapoptotic activity. This study aims to determine whether G. lucidumpolysaccharide peptide could attenuate skin flap ischemia-reperfusion injury and to investigate possible mechanisms involved.METHODS: G. lucidum polysaccharide peptide was administered to mice and epidermalcells before ischemia-reperfusion and hypoxia/reoxygenation, respectively. Thethioredoxin-1 inhibitor PX-12 was introduced in the counterevidence group. Theflap tissues and cells were tested by hematoxylin and eosin andimmunohistochemistry staining, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediateddUDP end-labeling assay, superoxide dismutase and malonic dialdehyde measurement,and Western blot.RESULTS: The survival rates of ischemia-reperfusion flaps andhypoxia/reoxygenation cells increased significantly following G. lucidumpolysaccharide peptide treatment. Mitigated tissue damage, reduced apoptosis, andenhanced antioxidant activity were observed in ischemia-reperfusion flapsreplenishing G. lucidum polysaccharide peptide. Western blot analysis revealedthioredoxin-1 depletion and a remarkable increase in ASK-1, phospho-p38, cleaved caspase-3, and cleaved PARP abundance in ischemia-reperfusion flaps andhypoxia/reoxygenation cells, whereas G. lucidum polysaccharide peptidedramatically up-regulated thioredoxin-1 and reduced the apoptosis-related proteinexpression. However, the rescue effect of G. lucidum polysaccharide peptide wasnotably blunted by supplementation with PX-12.CONCLUSIONS: The current investigation highlights the protective role of G.lucidum polysaccharide peptide in skin flap ischemia-reperfusion injury through athioredoxin-1-dependent antioxidant and antiapoptotic pathway. This initial foraydemonstrates the therapeutic value of G. lucidum polysaccharide peptide againstischemia-reperfusion and facilitates the understanding of its dermoprotectivemechanism.DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000004503 PMID: 29649063 