112. Psychooncology. 2018 Jul;27(7):1795-1801. doi: 10.1002/pon.4729. Epub 2018 May 4.Support needs of couples with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer duringreproductive decision making.Gietel-Habets JJG(1)(2), de Die-Smulders CEM(1)(2), Derks-Smeets IAP(1)(2),Tibben A(3), Tjan-Heijnen VCG(2)(4), van Golde R(2)(5), Gomez-Garcia E(1)(2), vanOsch LADM(1)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Maastricht University Medical Centre+,Maastricht, The Netherlands.(2)GROW-School for Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht UniversityMedical Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands.(3)Centre for Human and Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Centre,Leiden, The Netherlands.(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Medical Oncology, MaastrichtUniversity Medical Centre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands.(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Maastricht University MedicalCentre+, Maastricht, The Netherlands.(6)Department of Health Promotion/CAPHRI, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.OBJECTIVE: Reproductive decision making for couples with hereditary breast andovarian cancer (HBOC) is complex and can result in decisional conflict or regret.This study investigated couples' support needs and aimed to identify vulnerablecouples. Ultimately, we should strive to develop a clear standard of careguideline regarding reproductive decision support.METHODS: Mixed methods were used for data collection. A focus group study wasconducted among 18 couples (N = 35) with HBOC who had made a reproductivedecision after reproductive counselling. Subsequently, 129 similar couples(N = 258) were invited to complete a cross-sectional survey based on the focusgroup study.RESULTS: Clinical and practical aspects of reproductive counselling werepositively evaluated in the focus group study, although couples indicated a need for additional support with emotional and social concerns in which theirrelationship, social environment, and the way they picture their desired familywere key elements. The survey was completed by 86 participants. Making areproductive choice was experienced as (very) difficult by 43%, and 69% showed a need for additional support during decision making. Younger participants andthose who opted for a natural pregnancy experienced more difficulty withreproductive decision making, and partners showed a higher need for psychologicalsupport than carriers.CONCLUSIONS: Couples with HBOC who need to make a reproductive decision havespecific needs for guidance and support, of which the desired content and methodscan vary. It is therefore important to identify vulnerable couples and to attune counselling to couples' needs.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4729 PMID: 29644780 