92. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jun;73:424-436. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.03.057. Epub 2018 Apr 9.Co-delivery of docetaxel and gemcitabine by anacardic acid modifiedself-assembled albumin nanoparticles for effective breast cancer management.Kushwah V(1), Katiyar SS(2), Dora CP(2), Kumar Agrawal A(3), Lamprou DA(4), GuptaRC(3), Jain S(5).Author information: (1)Centre for Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Department of Pharmaceutics,National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, SAS Nagar, Punjab,India; James Graham Brown Cancer Centre, University of Louisville, Louisville,KY, USA; Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy & Biomedical Sciences (SIPBS),University of Strathclyde, Cathedral Street, Glasgow G4 0RE, United Kingdom.(2)Centre for Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Department of Pharmaceutics,National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, SAS Nagar, Punjab,India.(3)James Graham Brown Cancer Centre, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY,USA.(4)Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy & Biomedical Sciences (SIPBS), University ofStrathclyde, Cathedral Street, Glasgow G4 0RE, United Kingdom; Medway School ofPharmacy, University of Kent, Medway Campus, Anson Building, Central Avenue,Chatham Maritime, Chatham, Kent ME4 4TB, United Kingdom.(5)Centre for Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology, Department of Pharmaceutics,National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research, SAS Nagar, Punjab,India. Electronic address: sanyogjain@niper.ac.in.In the present study, we have modified bovine serum albumin (BSA) by covalentlyconjugating with anacardic acid (AA) and gemcitabine (GEM) and further used fordevelopment of docetaxel (DTX) loaded nanoparticles (AA-GEM-BSA NPs). AA issupposed to provide tumor targeting through VEGF receptors overexpressed intumors, while the combination of GEM and DTX is supposed to provide synergisticactivity by targeting multiple pathways. The conjugate was synthesized viacarbodiimide chemistry and characterized by 1H NMR, FTIR, MALDI-TOF and elementalanalysis. Conformational changes owing to conjugation of AA and GEM wereestimated via fluorescence, Raman and CD spectroscopy, while changes inphysiochemical properties were studied by differential scanning calorimetry(DSC), thermogravimetry (TGA) and contact angle goniometry (CAG). Synthesizedconjugate was further transformed into DTX loaded NPs and freeze dried. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) demonstratedformation of spherical NPs having particle size, 163 ± 8 nm, PDI, 0.13 ± 0.09 andZP, -27 ± 1 mV. Cellular uptake in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 revealed hNTs, OATP1B3independent, clathrin mediated internalization followed via nuclearco-localization of C-6 loaded AA-GEM-BSA NPs, responsible for significantlyhigher apoptosis index. Pharmacokinetic profile of DTX loaded AA-GEM-BSA NPsrevealed 6.12 and 3.27-fold and 6.28 and 8.9-fold higher AUC and T1/2 values ofDTX and GEM as compared to Taxotere® and Gemzar®, respectively. Interestingly,the developed NPs were found safe with no marked effect on RBCs, lower hepato andnephro toxicity. Data in hand suggest promising potential of developed NPs inameliorating the pharmacokinetic and therapeutic profile of combinatorial regimenof DTX and GEM.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The present report is the originalstate of art technology to selectively target dual drug (DTX and GEM) loaded BSA NPs via exploring tumor targeting potential of AA, having high affinity towardsVEGF receptors (angiogenesis marker) overexpressed in tumor. The AA and GEMbio-conjugated BSA was synthesized and further used to develop DTX loadednanoparticles (AA-GEM-BSA NPs). The optimized NPs were further evaluated viaextensive in vitro and in vivo studies, demonstrating ameliorated cellularuptake, pharmacokinetic and toxicity profile of drugs. Conclusively, DTX loadedAA-GEM-BSA NPs, holds promising potential in increasing the therapeuticefficiency of drugs and overcoming solvent and drug mediated side effects and canbe explored further as a scalable platform technology for difficult to deliverdrugs.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.03.057 PMID: 29649635 