120. NPJ Breast Cancer. 2018 Apr 3;4:8. doi: 10.1038/s41523-018-0061-y. eCollection2018.Hypothesis: can the abscopal effect explain the impact of adjuvant radiotherapyon breast cancer mortality?Jatoi I(1), Benson JR(2), Kunkler I(3).Author information: (1)1Department of Surgery, University of Texas Health Science Center, SanAntonio, Texas USA.(2)2Cambridge Breast Unit, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge and Faculty ofMedical Sciences, Anglia Ruskin University, Cambridge, UK.(3)3Institute of Genetic and Molecular Medicine, Western General Hospital,University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.Radiotherapy is an integral component of loco-regional therapy for breast cancer.Randomized controlled trials indicate that increasing the extent of extirpativesurgery primarily reduces the risk of local recurrences, while the addition ofradiotherapy to surgery can also reduce the risk of distant recurrences, thereby lowering breast cancer-specific mortality. This may suggest an "abscopal" effect beyond the immediate zone of loco-regional irradiation that favorably perturbsthe natural history of distant micrometastases. Immunological phenomena such as"immunogenic cell death" provide a plausible mechanistic link between the localand systemic effects of radiation. Radiotherapy treatment can stimulate bothpro-immunogenic and immunosuppressive pathways with a potential net beneficialeffect on anti-tumor immune activity. Upregulation of programmed cell deathligand (PD-L1) by radiotherapy is an immunosuppressive pathway that could beapproached with anti-PD-L1 therapy with potential further improvement insurvival. The world overview of randomized trials indicates that the breastcancer mortality reduction from adjuvant radiotherapy is delayed relative to thatof adjuvant systemic treatments, and similar delays in the separation of survivalcurves are evident in the majority of randomized immunotherapy trialsdemonstrating treatment efficacy. In this article, we hypothesize that anabscopal effect may explain the benefit of radiotherapy in reducing breast cancermortality, and that It might be possible to harness and augment this effect with systemic agents to reduce the risk of late recurrences.DOI: 10.1038/s41523-018-0061-y PMCID: PMC5882959PMID: 29644338 