111. Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2018 Apr 12:1-11. doi:10.1080/21691401.2018.1459634. [Epub ahead of print]Ultrasonically controlled estrone-modified liposomes for estrogen-positive breastcancer therapy.Salkho NM(1), Paul V(1), Kawak P(1), Vitor RF(1), Martins AM(2), Al Sayah M(3),Husseini GA(1).Author information: (1)a Department of Chemical Engineering , American University of Sharjah ,Sharjah , United Arab Emirates.(2)b California Institute for Quantitative Biosciences , Berkeley , CA , USA.(3)c Department of Biology, Chemistry and Environmental Sciences , AmericanUniversity of Sharjah , Sharjah , United Arab Emirates.A new modality of drug targeting to tumors has been proposed. The ligand-mediatedapproach, that already increases the therapeutic index of the drug, can still be optimized by the encapsulation of the drug into sonosensitive nanoparticles. Inthis work, an endogenous ligand, estrone, was used to synthesizedoxorubicin-encapsulating liposomes for estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breastcancer therapy with cyanuric chloride (2,4,6 trichloro-1,3,5 triazine) being usedas a linking molecule to attach 3-OH group of estrone to the surface ofliposomes. Then, drug release from liposomes was studied using ultrasound wavesas a triggering mechanism with different frequencies and power densities. Inaddition, drug uptake by two cell lines ER-positive (MCF-7) and ER-negative(MDA-MB-231) was assessed, with the former cell line being examined later tostudy the synergetic effect of the receptor mediator targeting and ultrasoundtrigger. The sizes of the liposomes loaded with calcein (as a doxorubicin modeldrug) were determined by dynamic light scattering, and they were characterized aslarge unilamellar vesicles (LUVs). The release from the prepared liposomestriggered by ultrasound (US) waves at low frequency (20 kHz) and high frequency(1.07 and 3.24 MHz), at several power densities, was determined by monitoring thechanges in calcein fluorescence, using a spectrofluorometer. Increasing powerdensities showed a significant effect on release at high frequencies and duringthe first two US pulses at low frequency. The echogenicity of the liposomes wasproven and characterized at different power densities and frequencies. To confirmthe viability of the carrier as a doxorubicin carrier, doxorubicin-encapsulating liposomes were prepared using the ammonium sulfate transmembrane gradient method.The liposomes were LUVs and were US-sensitive, exhibiting similar behavior tocalcein-encapsulating liposomes. The calcein uptake by an ER + cell line (MCF-7) was compared with the uptake by an ER-cell line (MDA-MB-231). The MCF-7 uptakewas significantly higher than the MDA-MB-231 uptake, which proved the targetingpotential of estrone-conjugated liposomes. The exposure to low-frequencyultrasound (LFUS) revealed a statistically significant uptake of calcein comparedto uptake without ultrasound. The described drug delivery (DD) system, comprisinga new echogenic liposomal formulation, promises a non-immunogenic andsite-specific biomedical approach to ER-positive breast cancer therapy.DOI: 10.1080/21691401.2018.1459634 PMID: 29644867 