Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.144. JMIR Mhealth Uhealth. 2018 Apr 11;6(4):e85. doi: 10.2196/mhealth.9311.Mobile Breast Cancer e-Support Program for Chinese Women With Breast CancerUndergoing Chemotherapy (Part 1): Qualitative Study of Women's Perceptions.Zhu J(1)(2), Ebert L(2), Guo D(3), Yang S(3), Han Q(3), Chan SW(2).Author information: (1)Nursing Department, Medical School, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.(2)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Faculty of Health and Medcine, University of Newcastle, Newcastle, Australia.(3)Zhongshan Hospital, Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.BACKGROUND: Women with breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy experiencedifficulty in accessing adequate cancer care in China. Mobile apps have thepotential to provide easily accessible support for these women. However, thereremains a paucity of randomized controlled trials to evaluate the effectivenessof app-based programs targeting specifically women with breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy. Moreover, women's perceptions and experiences related to using and interacting within the app-based program have rarely been reported. Therefore, anapp-based Breast Cancer e-Support program was developed and evaluated using arandomized controlled trial. Based on the incorporation of Bandura'sself-efficacy and social exchange theory, Breast Cancer e-Support program lasted for 12 weeks covering 4 cycles of chemotherapy and had 4 components: (1) aLearning forum, (2) a Discussion forum, (3) an Ask-the-Expert forum, and (4) aPersonal Stories forum.OBJECTIVE: As a part of the randomized controlled trial, the aim of this studywas to explore the participants' perception of Breast Cancer e-Support program,its strengths and weaknesses, and suggestions to improve the program.METHODS: A descriptive qualitative study was employed. Thirteen women with breastcancer from 2 university-affiliated hospitals in China, who were randomlyallocated to the Breast Cancer e-Support program in the randomized controlledtrial, were interviewed from November 2016 to February 2017. Purposive samplingwas used based on women's scores of self-efficacy after the completion of theintervention. Inductive content analysis was used to analyze the transcripts,allowing the categories and subcategories to flow from the data.RESULTS: The qualitative interviews revealed that participants perceived theBreast Cancer e-Support program to be helpful in enhancing knowledge, improvingconfidence level, and promoting emotional well-being. Women also identifiedaccess to tailored advice from experts and convenience as the benefits of thisprogram. Physical or psychological health status, stigma related with breastcancer, and app instability were mentioned as the challenges to engagement.Suggestions for improvement included adding message reminders to prompt instantcommunication and search engine to locate information quickly, supplementing moreinteresting and practical knowledge, updating the information more often, andquickening the responses to women's questions. The participants recommended theBreast Cancer e-Support program to be incorporated as routine care to supportwomen during chemotherapy.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the potential of the Breast Cancer e-Supportprogram to support women during chemotherapy. Future app-based programs shouldapply a family-centered approach and provide more support on stigma associatedwith the disease to encourage engagement with the app. Suggestions of improvementregarding the design, content, and operation of the app-based intervention shouldbe addressed in future studies. It is promising to incorporate the Breast Cancer e-Support program into routine care to generalize the benefits.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials RegistryACTRN12616000639426; http://www.ANZCTR.org.au/ ACTRN12616000639426.aspx (Archivedby WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6v1n9hGZq).©Jiemin Zhu, Lyn Ebert, Dongmei Guo, Sumei Yang, Qiuying Han, Sally Wai-Chi Chan.Originally published in JMIR Mhealth and Uhealth (http://mhealth.jmir.org),11.04.2018.DOI: 10.2196/mhealth.9311 PMCID: PMC5917082PMID: 29643056 