Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.133. J Anaesthesiol Clin Pharmacol. 2018 Jan-Mar;34(1):35-40. doi:10.4103/joacp.JOACP_143_17.Opioid-free anesthesia for breast cancer surgery: An observational study.Tripathy S(1), Rath S(2), Agrawal S(1), Rao PB(1), Panda A(1), Mishra TS(2),Nayak S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, All India Institute of MedicalSciences, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.(2)Department of General Surgery, All India Institute of Medical Sciences,Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.Background and Aims: Opioids are associated with postoperative nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, and increased analgesic requirement. A nonopioid anesthesia techniquemay reduce morbidity, enable day care surgery, and possibly decrease tumorrecurrence. We compared opioid-free, nerve block-based anesthesia withopioid-based general anesthesia for breast cancer surgery in a prospective cohortstudy.Material and Methods: Twenty four adult American Society of Anesthesiologistsgrade I-III patients posted for modified radical mastectomy (MRM) with axillarydissection were induced with propofol and maintained on isoflurane (0.8-1.0minimum alveolar concentration) through i-gel on spontaneous ventilation andadministered ultrasound-guided PECS 1 and 2 blocks (0.1% lignocaine + 0.25%bupivacaine + 1 mcg/kg dexmedetomidine, 30 ml). Postoperative nausea, painscores, nonopioid analgesic requirement over 24 h, stay in the recovery room, andsatisfaction of surgeon and patient were studied. Twenty-four patients whounderwent MRM and axillary dissection without a nerve block under routine opioid anesthesia with controlled ventilation were the controls.Results: MRM and axillary dissection under the nonopioid technique was adequatein all patients. Time in the recovery room, postoperative nausea, analgesicrequirement, and visual analog scale scores were all significantly less in thenonopioid group. Surgeon and patient were satisfied with good patient quality of life on day 7.Conclusion: Nonopioid nerve block technique is adequate and safe for MRM withaxillary clearance. Compared to conventional technique, it offers lessermorbidity and may allow for earlier discharge. Larger studies are needed toassess the long-term impact on chronic pain and tumor recurrence by nonopioidtechniques.DOI: 10.4103/joacp.JOACP_143_17 PMCID: PMC5885445PMID: 29643620 