138. PLoS One. 2018 Apr 16;13(4):e0195774. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195774.eCollection 2018.Reducing health inequalities with interventions targeting behavioral factorsamong individuals with low levels of education - A rapid review.Vilhelmsson A(1), Östergren PO(1).Author information: (1)Division of Social Medicine and Global Health, Department of Clinical SciencesMalmö, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.Individuals with low levels of education systematically have worse health thanthose with medium or high levels of education. Yet there are few examples ofattempts to summarize the evidence supporting the efficacy of interventionstargeting health-related behavior among individuals with low education levels,and a large part of the literature is descriptive rather than analytical. A rapidreview was carried out to examine the impact of such interventions. Specialattention was given to the relative impact of the interventions among individualswith low education levels and their potential to reduce health inequality. Of1,365 articles initially identified, only 31 were deemed relevant for the review,and of those, nine met the inclusion and quality criteria. The comparability ofincluded studies was limited due to differences in study design, samplecharacteristics, and definitions of exposure and outcome variables. Therefore,instead of performing a formal meta-analysis, an overall assessment of theavailable evidence was made and summarized into some general conclusions. Wefound no support for the notion that the methods used to reduce smoking decrease inequalities in health between educational groups. Evidence was also limited for decreasing inequality through interventions regarding dietary intake, physicalactivity and mental health. Only one study was found using an interventiondesigned to decrease socioeconomic inequalities by increasing the use of breastcancer screening. Thus, we concluded that there is a lack of support regardingthis type of intervention as well. Therefore, the main conclusion is that solidevidence is lacking for interventions aimed at individual determinants of health and that more research is needed to fill this gap in knowledge.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195774 PMCID: PMC5901784PMID: 29659598  [Indexed for MEDLINE]