4. Adv Clin Chem. 2018;85:71-89. doi: 10.1016/bs.acc.2018.02.006. Epub 2018 Mar 6.Obesity, Thrombotic Risk, and Inflammation in Cancer.Rubio-Jurado B(1), Balderas-Peña LM(2), García-Luna EE(3), Zavala-Cerna MG(4),Riebeling-Navarro C(5), Reyes PA(6), Nava-Zavala AH(7).Author information: (1)Onco-Hematology Division, UMAE HE CMNO IMSS, Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico;Unidad de Investigación Biomédica 02 (UIEC), UMAE HE CMNO IMSS, Guadalajara,Jalisco, Mexico; Extension, Consulting and Research Division, Universidad deMonterrey, San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, Mexico.(2)Unidad de Investigación Biomédica 02 (UIEC), UMAE HE CMNO IMSS, Guadalajara,Jalisco, Mexico; Basic Sciences Division, Centro Universitario de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de Guadalajara, Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.(3)Vicerrectoría Académica Escuela Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad deMonterrey, San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, Mexico.(4)Programa Internacional de Medicina, Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara,Zapopan, Jalisco, Mexico.(5)Unidad de Investigación en Epidemiología Clínica, UMAE, Hospital de Pediatría CMNS-XXI, IMSS/UNAM, Mexico City, Mexico.(6)Division of Research, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio Chávez, MexicoCity, Mexico.(7)Unidad de Investigación Biomédica 02 (UIEC), UMAE HE CMNO IMSS, Guadalajara,Jalisco, Mexico; Programa Internacional de Medicina, Universidad Autónoma deGuadalajara, Zapopan, Jalisco, Mexico; División de Medicina Interna, Servicio de Inmunología y Reumatología, Hospital General de Occidente, Secretaria de SaludJalisco, Zapopan, Jalisco, Mexico. Electronic address: navazava@yahoo.com.mx.Neoplasms exhibits a high incidence and mortality rates due to their complex and commonly overlapping clinical, biochemical, and morphologic profiles influencedby acquired or inherited molecular abnormalities, cell of origin, and level ofdifferentiation. Obesity appears related to ~20% of cancers includingendometrial, esophageal, colorectal, postmenopausal breast, prostate, and renal. Several factors other than obesity, i.e., insulin, insulin-like growth factor,sexual hormones, and adipokines may play a potential role in neoplasia.Cancer-associated hypercoagulable and thrombotic states are influenced byabnormalities in the vascular wall and susceptibility to invasion, interferencein blood flow and increase in circulating tissue factor and thrombin, activation of cell growth factors, the presence of a central catheter, chemotherapies,neoplasm type, and surgery. In cancer, thromboembolic complications are thesecond most frequent cause of death with pulmonary thromboembolism in ~50% ofcases postmortem. Thrombosis worsens prognosis as demonstrated with a survivalrate as low as 12% per year vs 36% in nonthrombic patients. Deep vein thrombosis is the most frequent thromboembolic complication in cancer. It is usuallydetected at diagnosis and within the first 3 months of chemotherapy. Theunderlining mechanisms of this association should be further studied to identify patients at higher risk and develop adequate prevention, diagnostic, andtreatment measures. The D-dimer test can be successfully used to assess thefibrinolytic phase of coagulation and as such is routinely used in suspectedcases of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary thromboembolism. In addition,significant advances have been made in understanding the composition andfunctional capabilities of the gut microbiota in the inflammatory process,obesity, and its roles in cancer; however, the intricate balance that existswithin the microbiota may not only affect the host directly, it can also disrupt the entire microbial community.CONCLUSIONS: Cancer is a prothrombotic andinflammatory state in which the activation of coagulation is related to tumorgrowth, angiogenesis, and metastasis. It is important to identify therelationship between body mass index with these processes and clarify theirimportance in cancer prognosis. Future research should answer the question ifmanipulation of resident microbial communities could potentially improveprognosis and treatment outcome.© 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/bs.acc.2018.02.006 PMID: 29655462 