61. J Comorb. 2018 Mar 23;8(1):16-24. doi: 10.15256/joc.2018.8.125. eCollection 2018.Incidence of comorbidities in women with breast cancer treated with tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor: an Australian population-based cohort study.Ng HS(1), Koczwara B(2), Roder D(3), Niyonsenga T(4)(5), Vitry A(1).Author information: (1)School of Pharmacy and Medical Sciences, University of South Australia,Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.(2)Flinders Centre for Innovation in Cancer, Flinders University, Adelaide, SouthAustralia, Australia.(3)Cancer Epidemiology and Population Health, Centre of Population HealthResearch, School of Health Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide,South Australia, Australia.(4)Centre for Research and Action in Public Health, UC Health Research Institute,Faculty of Health, University of Canberra, Canberra, Australian CapitalTerritory, Australia.(5)School of Health Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, SouthAustralia, Australia.Background: The development of comorbidities has become increasingly relevantwith longer-term cancer survival.Objective: To assess the pattern of comorbidities among Australian women withbreast cancer treated with tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor.Design: Retrospective cohort study using Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS)data (10% sample) from January 2003 to December 2014. Dispensing claims data wereused to identify comorbidities and classified with the Rx-Risk-V model. Thebreast cancer cohort had tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor dispensed between2004 and 2011 with no switching between types of endocrine therapy. Comparisonswere made between the breast cancer cohort and specific control groups (age- and sex-matched at 1:10 ratio without any dispensing of anti-neoplastic agents duringthe study period) for the development of five individual comorbidities over time using Cox regression models.Results: Women treated with tamoxifen had a higher incidence of cardiovascularconditions, diabetes, and pain or pain-inflammation, but a lower incidence ofhyperlipidaemia compared with non-cancer control groups, as indicated by PBSdata. Women treated with aromatase inhibitors were more likely to developcardiovascular conditions, osteoporosis, and pain or pain-inflammation comparedwith non-cancer control groups. The risks of hyperlipidaemia and osteoporosiswere significantly lower among tamoxifen users compared with aromatase inhibitor users.Conclusions: Women with hormone-dependent breast cancer treated with an endocrinetherapy had a higher risk of developing specified comorbid conditions than women without cancer, with different comorbidity profiles for those on tamoxifen versusaromatase inhibitors. Further research into the causes and mechanism ofdevelopment and management of comorbidities after cancer is needed.DOI: 10.15256/joc.2018.8.125 PMCID: PMC5885067PMID: 29651409 