3. Pancreatology. 2018 Jun;18(4):429-437. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2018.04.001. Epub 2018 Apr 3.Development of MR quantified pancreatic fat deposition as a cancer riskbiomarker.Coe PO(1), Williams SR(2), Morris DM(3), Parkin E(4), Harvie M(5), Renehan AG(4),O'Reilly DA(6).Author information: (1)Division of Cancer Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Biology,Medicine and Health, and Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Universityof Manchester, Manchester, UK. Electronic address: petecoe@doctors.org.uk.(2)Centre for Imaging Science, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Biology,Medicine and Health, and Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Universityof Manchester, Manchester, UK.(3)Centre for Imaging Science, School of Health Sciences, Faculty of Biology,Medicine and Health, and Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Universityof Manchester, Manchester, UK; Edinburgh Imaging, University of Edinburgh,Queen's Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh, UK.(4)Division of Cancer Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Biology,Medicine and Health, and Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Universityof Manchester, Manchester, UK.(5)Prevent Breast Cancer Research Unit, Manchester University NHS FoundationTrust, Manchester, UK.(6)Division of Cancer Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of Biology,Medicine and Health, and Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, Universityof Manchester, Manchester, UK; Department of HepatoPancreaticoBiliary Surgery,Manchester University Hospital Trust and Manchester Academic Health SciencesCentre, Manchester, UK.BACKGROUND: Excess body adiposity is associated with increased risk of pancreaticcancer, and in animal models excess intra-pancreatic fat is a driver ofpancreatic carcinogenesis. Within a programme to evaluate pancreatic fat and PCrisk in humans, we assessed whether MR-quantified pancreatic fat fraction (PFF)was 'fit for purpose' as an imaging biomarker.METHODS: We determined PFF using MR spectroscopy (MRS) and MR chemical shiftimaging (CS-MR), in two groups. In Group I, we determined accuracy of MR-derived PFF with histological digital fat quantification in 12 patients undergoingpancreatic resection. In a second study, we assessed reproducibility in 15volunteers (Group IIa), and extended to 43 volunteers (Group IIa & IIb) to relatePFF with MR-derived hepatic fat fraction (HFF), body mass index (BMI), and waist circumference (WC) using linear regression models. We assessed intra- andinter-observer, and between imaging modality levels of agreement usingBland-Altman plots.RESULTS: In Group I patients, we found strong levels of agreement between MRS andCS-MR derived PFF and digitally quantified fat on histology (rho: 0.781 and 0.672respectively). In Group IIa, there was poor reproducibility in initialassessments. We refined our protocols to account for 3D dimensionality of thepancreas, and found substantially improved intra-observer agreements. In GroupII, HFF and WC were significantly correlated with PFF (p values < 0.05).INTERPRETATION: Both CS-MR and MRS (after accounting for pancreatic 3Ddimensionality) were 'fit for purpose' to determine PFF and might add informationon cancer prediction independent from measures of general body adiposity.Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.pan.2018.04.001 PMID: 29655566 