15. Allergy. 2018 Apr 13. doi: 10.1111/all.13455. [Epub ahead of print]An immunologically relevant rodent model demonstrates safety of therapy using atumour-specific IgE.Josephs DH(1)(2), Nakamura M(1), Bax HJ(1)(2), Dodev TS(3), Muirhead G(4), SaulL(1)(2), Karagiannis P(1)(2), Ilieva KM(1)(5), Crescioli S(1), Gazinska P(5)(6), Woodman N(6), Lomardelli C(6), Kareemaghay S(6), Selkirk C(7), Lentfer H(7),Barton C(8), Canevari S(9), Figini M(9), Downes N(10), Dombrowicz D(11), CorriganCJ(12), Nestle FO(1)(13), Jones PS(8), Gould HJ(3), Blower PJ(14), Tsoka S(4),Spicer JF(2), Karagiannis SN(1)(5).Author information: (1)St. John's Institute of Dermatology, School of Basic & Medical Biosciences,King's College London, London, United Kingdom.(2)School of Cancer & Pharmaceutical Sciences, King's College London, Guy'sHospital, London, United Kingdom.(3)Randall Centre for Cell and Molecular Biophysics, King's College London,London, United Kingdom.(4)Department of Informatics, Faculty of Natural and Mathematical Sciences,King's College London, London, United Kingdom.(5)Breast Cancer Now Research Unit, School of Cancer & Pharmaceutical Sciences,King's College London, Guy's Cancer Centre, London, United Kingdom.(6)King's Health Partners Cancer Biobank, School of Cancer & PharmaceuticalSciences, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.(7)Biotherapeutics Development Unit, Cancer Research UK, South Mimms,Hertfordshire, United Kingdom.(8)Centre for Drug Development, Cancer Research UK, 407 St John Street, London,United Kingdom.(9)Department of Applied Research and Technology Development, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumouri, 20133, Milan, Italy.(10)Sequani, Bromyard RoadLedbury, Herefordshire, United Kingdom.(11)Univ. Lille, Inserm, CHU Lille, Institut Pasteur de Lille, U1011 - EGID,F-59000Lille, France.(12)Medical Research Council & Asthma UK Centre in Allergic Mechanisms of Asthma,King's College London, London, United Kingdom.(13)Immunology and Inflammation Therapeutic Research Area, Sanofi US, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.(14)Imaging Chemistry & Biology, Division of Imaging Sciences and BiomedicalEngineering, King's College London, St. Thomas's Hospital, London, UnitedKingdom.BACKGROUND: Designing biologically informative models for assessing the safety ofnovel agents, especially for cancer immunotherapy, carries substantialchallenges. The choice of an in vivo system for studies on IgE antibodiesrepresents a major impediment to their clinical translation, especially withrespect to class-specific immunological functions and safety. Fcε receptorexpression and structure are different in humans and mice, so that the murinesystem is not informative when studying human IgE biology. By contrast, FcεRIexpression and cellular distribution in rats mirrors that of humans.METHODS: We are developing MOv18 IgE, a human chimeric antibody recognizing thetumour-associated antigen folate receptor alpha. We created an immunologicallycongruent surrogate rat model likely to recapitulate human IgE-FcεR interactions,and engineered a surrogate rat IgE equivalent to MOv18. Employing this model, we examined in vivo safety and efficacy of anti-tumour IgE antibodies.RESULTS: In immunocompetent rats, rodent IgE restricted growth of syngeneictumours in the absence of clinical, histopathological or metabolic signsassociated with obvious toxicity. No physiological or immunological evidence of a'cytokine-storm' or allergic response was seen, even at 50 mg/kg weekly doses.IgE treatment was associated with elevated serum concentrations of TNFα, amediator previously linked with IgE-mediated anti-tumour and anti-parasiticfunctions, alongside evidence of substantially elevated tumoural immune cellinfiltration and immunological pathway activation in tumour-bearing lungs.CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate safety of MOv18 IgE, in conjunction withefficacy and immune activation, supporting the translation of this therapeuticapproach to the clinical arena. This article is protected by copyright. Allrights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1111/all.13455 PMID: 29654623 