16. J Cancer Educ. 2018 Apr 14. doi: 10.1007/s13187-018-1361-5. [Epub ahead of print]Evaluating the Training of Chinese-Speaking Community Health Workers to Implementa Small-Group Intervention Promoting Mammography.Gu J(1), Maxwell AE(2), Ma GX(3)(4), Qian X(1), Tan Y(4), Hsieh HC(1), Tu SP(5), Wang JH(6).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Cancer Prevention and Control Program, LombardiComprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical Center, WashingtonD.C., USA.(2)Fielding School of Public Health and Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center,University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(3)Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(4)Center for Asian Health, Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University,Philadelphia, PA, USA.(5)Division of General Internal Medicine, Geriatrics, and Bioethics, Universityof California Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.(6)Department of Oncology, Cancer Prevention and Control Program, LombardiComprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical Center, WashingtonD.C., USA. jw235@georgetown.edu.This study evaluated the training of Chinese American Community Health Workers(CHWs) to implement a small-group mammography video and discussion program aspart of a randomized controlled trial that had the goal to increase adherence to mammography screening guidelines among Chinese American women. A total of 26Chinese American CHWs in the metropolitan Washington DC area, SouthernCalifornia, and New York City participated in a 4-h training workshop andcompleted surveys before and after the workshop to assess their knowledgeregarding mammography screening guidelines and human subjects protection rules.The results showed significantly increased knowledge of mammography screeningguidelines and human subjects protection rules (both p < 0.01) after thetraining. CHWs were also trained to lead a discussion of the video, includingscreening benefits and misconceptions. Forty-three audio recordings ofdiscussions led by 13 active CHWs were transcribed and qualitatively analyzed to assess implementation fidelity. Ten out of 13 active CHWs fully addressed about 3of the 5 benefit items, and 11 out of 13 CHWs fully addressed more than 5 of the 9 misconception items. Chinese CHWs can be trained to implement research-basedintervention programs. However, a one-time training resulted in moderateadherence to the discussion protocol. Ongoing or repeat trainings throughout the intervention period may be needed to enhance implementation fidelity.DOI: 10.1007/s13187-018-1361-5 PMID: 29654506 