39. Biomaterials. 2018 Jul;170:37-48. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.04.001. Epub2018 Apr 3.Stromal cell-laden 3D hydrogel microwell arrays as tumor microenvironment modelfor studying stiffness dependent stromal cell-cancer interactions.Yue X(1), Nguyen TD(1), Zellmer V(2), Zhang S(2), Zorlutuna P(3).Author information: (1)Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, University of Notre Dame, IN, USA.(2)Harper Cancer Research Institute, University of Notre Dame, IN, USA;Biological Sciences Department, University of Notre Dame, IN, USA.(3)Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, University of Notre Dame, IN, USA; Harper Cancer Research Institute, University of Notre Dame, IN, USA;Bioengineering Graduate Program, University of Notre Dame, IN, USA. Electronicaddress: Zorlutuna.1@nd.edu.Tumor properties such as growth and metastasis are dramatically dependent on the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the diversity of the TME including thestiffness and the composition of the extracellular matrix (ECM), as well as theinvolvement of stromal cells, makes it extremely difficult to establish properin vitro models for studying tumor growth and metastasis. In this research, wefabricated a stromal cell-laden microwell array system with tunable stiffnessranging from 200 Pa up to 3 kPa, which covers the stiffness range of normal andcancerous mammary tissues, to study the effect of ECM stiffness on stromal-cancerinteraction. Our results showed that, tumor spheroids closely interacted with thepre-adipocyte stromal cells encapsulated within the microwell array, influencing their differentiation and maturation degree in a stiffness related manner. Theyinhibited adipogenesis in high stiffness tissue constructs that were at breastcancer stiffness range, while the inhibition effect diminished in the lowstiffness tissue constructs that were at normal human breast tissue range.Furthermore, the 3D structure of tumor spheroids was shown to be important forthe inhibition of the adipogenesis, as conditioned media from monolayer cultureof cancer cells did not show any significant effect. These results show, for the first time in literature, that stromal-cancer interactions are highly dependenton ECM stiffness. The biomimetic TME platform developed here is a powerfulorgan-specific cancer model for studying the involvement of stromal cells inearly mammary tumorigenesis and metastasis, and could be powerful platform forhigh-throughput drug discovery.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.04.001 PMID: 29653286 