155. Int J Cancer. 2018 Apr 16. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31528. [Epub ahead of print]Immune system augmentation via humanization using stem/progenitor cells andbioengineering in a breast cancer model study.Shafiee A(1)(2), McGovern JA(1), Lahr CA(1), Meinert C(1), Moi D(3), WagnerF(1)(4), Landgraf M(1), De-Juan-Pardo E(1), Mazzieri R(3), Hutmacher DW(1)(5).Author information: (1)Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Centre for RegenerativeMedicine, Queensland University of Technology (QUT), 60 Musk Avenue, KelvinGrove, QLD 4059, Brisbane, Australia.(2)UQ Centre for Clinical Research, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.(3)The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute, Translational ResearchInstitute, Brisbane, Australia.(4)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Dr. von Hauner Children's Hospital,Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, Munich, Germany.(5)ARC Centre In Additive Biomanufacturing, Queensland University of Technology(QUT), 60 Musk Avenue, Kelvin Grove, QLD 4059, Brisbane.Despite significant advances, most current in vivo models fail to fullyrecapitulate the biological processes that occur in humans. Here we aimed todevelop an advanced humanized model with features of an organ bone by providingdifferent bone tissue cellular compartments including preosteoblasts, mesenchymalstem/stromal (MSCs), endothelial and hematopoietic cells in an engineeredmicroenvironment. The bone compartment was generated by culturing the human MSCs,umbilical vein endothelial cells with gelatin methacryloyl hydrogels in thecenter of a melt-electrospun polycaprolactone tubular scaffolds, which wereseeded with human preosteoblasts. The tissue engineered bone (TEB) wassubcutaneously implanted into the NSG mice and formed a morphologically andfunctionally organ bone. Mice were further humanized through the tail veininjection of human cord blood derived CD34+ cells, which then populated in themouse bone marrow, spleen and humanized TEB (hTEB). 11 weeks after CD34+transplantation, metastatic breast cancer cells (MDA-MB-231BO) wereorthotopically injected. Cancer cell injection resulted in the formation of aprimary tumor and metastasis to the hTEB and mouse organs. Less frequentmetastasis and lower tumor burden were observed in hematochimeric mice,suggesting an immune-mediated response against the breast cancer cells. Overall, our results demonstrate the efficacy of tissue engineering approaches to studyspecies-specific cancer-bone interactions. Further studies using geneticallymodified hematopoietic stem cells and bioengineered microenvironments will enableus to address the specific roles of signaling molecules regulating hematopoietic niches and cancer metastasis in vivo.© 2018 UICC.DOI: 10.1002/ijc.31528 PMID: 29659011 