65. Cureus. 2018 Feb 4;10(2):e2150. doi: 10.7759/cureus.2150."Lazarus Response" to Olaparib in a Virtually Chemonaive Breast Cancer PatientCarrying Gross BRCA2 Gene Deletion.Moiseyenko VM(1), Chubenko VA(2), Moiseyenko FV(2), Zagorskaya LA(2), ZaytsevaYA(2), Gesha NE(2), Zykov EN(3), Ni VI(4), Preobrazhenskaya EV(4), SokolenkoAP(4), Imyanitov EN(4).Author information: (1)Director, City Cancer Center, Saint Petersburg.(2)Department of Chemotherapy, City Cancer Center, Saint Petersburg.(3)Laboratory of Nuclear Diagnostics, City Cancer Center, Saint Petersburg.(4)Department of Tumor Growth Biology, N.N. Petrov Institute of Oncology, SaintPetersburg.This report describes an estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer patient, whorelapsed at two and a half years after the completion of adjuvant chemotherapywhile being on the aromatase inhibition. Based on the clinical evidence forpotential sensitivity of the tumor to hormone ablation, everolimus was added tocontinuing exemestane treatment. Oral chemotherapy was administered at furtherdisease progression, however, it lasted only for 10 days due to rapidlydeteriorating condition of the patient. BRCA test was performed just before thefailure of endocrine therapy and revealed a gross deletion within BRCA2 gene.Since the patient already developed contraindications to the standardchemotherapy, olaparib (300 mg twice a day) was given as a last hope option. The patient demonstrated a "Lazarus response": the performance status and the resultsof the biochemical tests went back to the norm within first two weeks oftreatment. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) wasperformed at one month after the start of olaparib therapy, and revealed completemetabolic response for all multiple metastatic lesions located in the liver,bones, small pelvis, lungs, mediastinum, retroperitoneum, etc. Cytotoxic therapy and poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors are known to have virtuallyidentical mechanisms of tumor escape from the treatment, which are confined tothe restoration of BRCA proficiency within cancer cells. The pronounced tumorresponse to the treatment in this patient can be attributed to the lack of recentexposure to standard cytotoxic treatment as well as to the inability of tumorswith gross BRCA rearrangements to restore BRCA function via secondarymutation. This observation calls for comprehensive evaluation of PARP inhibitors in chemonaive patients with hereditary cancer.DOI: 10.7759/cureus.2150 PMCID: PMC5890964PMID: 29651367 