195. Complement Med Res. 2018;25(2):92-101. doi: 10.1159/000486672. Epub 2018 Apr 18.Psychosocial, Cognitive, and Physical Impact of Elaborate Consultations and Life Review in Female Patients with Non-Metastasized Breast Cancer.Thronicke A, Kröz M, Merkle A, Matthes H, Herbstreit C, Schad F.BACKGROUND: Elaborate consultations and life review (ECLR) has been regularlyapplied in patients of various cancer entities and stages withinAnthroposophic-integrative oncology concepts. However, a lack of systematicresearch in this field has been detected. To close this gap of knowledge, weevaluated the impact of ECLR in patients with non-metastasized breast cancerbefore, during, and after primary oncological treatment.METHODS: Patient-reported outcome measures were evaluated by analyzing EuropeanOrganisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-C30) in patients with non-metastasized breast cancer who had received either oncological standard therapy alone or in combination with ECLR.RESULTS: 95 female patients were eligible for questionnaire analysis (median age 58 years). Adjusted multivariable linear regression analysis revealed that ECLRwas associated with significant improvements in medium-term global health/qualityof life and emotional, social, and cognitive functioning. Furthermore, ECLR wasassociated with significant reductions of short-term appetite loss burden, pain, and short- and medium-term financial difficulties. Subgroup analyses revealedsignificant improvements in pivotal quality-of-life aspects including fatigue (p = 0.002) in chemotherapy-treated patients after ECLR.CONCLUSIONS: 12 months of surveillance of breast cancer patients revealsmedium-term recovery of the global health status/quality of life and cognitiveand psychosocial well-being associated with ECLR. In addition, our data indicate a possible association between ECLR and reduced short-term fatigue burden, which has to be re-confirmed prospectively in a larger study cohort. As long-termcancer survivors develop psychological symptoms similar to patients with chronic diseases, prospective studies should evaluate the impact of ECLR on thepsychosocial well-being in these patients.© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.DOI: 10.1159/000486672 PMID: 29656290 