186. Radiologia. 2018 May;60 Suppl 1:2-22. doi: 10.1016/j.rx.2018.02.007. Epub 2018Apr 12.Fundamentals of functional imaging I: current clinical techniques.[Article in English, Spanish]Luna A(1), Martín Noguerol T(2), Mata LA(2).Author information: (1)Health Time, Clínica Las Nieves, Jaén, España; Department of Radiology,University Hospitals of Cleveland, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland,OH, USA. Electronic address: aluna70@htime.org.(2)Health Time, Clínica Las Nieves, Jaén, España.Imaging techniques can establish a structural, physiological, and molecularphenotype for cancer, which helps enable accurate diagnosis and personalizedtreatment. In recent years, various imaging techniques that make it possible tostudy the functional characteristics of tumors quantitatively and reproduciblyhave been introduced and have become established in routine clinical practice.Perfusion studies enable us to estimate the microcirculation as well as tumorangiogenesis and permeability using ultrafast dynamic acquisitions withultrasound, computed tomography, or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging.Diffusion-weighted sequences now form part of state-of-the-art MR imagingprotocols to evaluate oncologic lesions in any anatomic location.Diffusion-weighted imaging provides information about the occupation of theextracellular and extravascular space and indirectly estimates the cellularityand apoptosis of tumors, having demonstrated its relation with biologicaggressiveness in various tumor lines and its usefulness in the evaluation of theearly response to systemic and local targeted therapies. Another tool is hydrogenproton MR spectroscopy, which is used mainly in the study of the metaboliccharacteristics of brain tumors. However, the complexity of the technique and itslack of reproducibility have limited its clinical use in other anatomic areas,although much experience with the use of this technique in the assessment ofprostate and breast cancers as well as liver lesions has also accumulated. Thisreview analyzes the imaging techniques that make it possible to evaluate thephysiological and molecular characteristics of cancer that have already beenintroduced into clinical practice, such as techniques that evaluate angiogenesis through dynamic acquisitions after the administration of contrast material,diffusion-weighted imaging, or hydrogen proton MR spectroscopy, as well as their principal applications in oncology.Copyright © 2018 SERAM. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.rx.2018.02.007 PMID: 29656881 