139. PLoS One. 2018 Apr 16;13(4):e0195497. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195497.eCollection 2018.Can chimerism explain breast/ovarian cancers in BRCA non-carriers fromBRCA-positive families?Mitchell R(1), Buckingham L(2), Cobleigh M(1), Rotmensch J(3), Burgess K(1), UshaL(1).Author information: (1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology, Oncology and CellTherapy, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States ofAmerica.(2)Department of Pathology, Division of Medical Laboratory Science, RushUniversity Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Gynecologic, RushUniversity Medical Center, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC) is most frequently caused bymutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 (in short, BRCA) genes. The incidence of hereditarybreast and ovarian cancer in relatives of BRCA mutation carriers who testnegative for the familial mutation (non-carriers) may be increased. However, the data is controversial, and at this time, these individuals are recommended thesame cancer surveillance as general population. One possible explanation for BRCAphenocopies (close relatives of BRCA carriers who have developed cancerconsistent with HBOC but tested negative for a familial mutation) is naturalchimerism where lack of detectable mutation in blood may not rule out thepresence of the mutation in the other tissues. To test this hypothesis, archival tumor tissue from eleven BRCA phenocopies was investigated. DNA from the tumortissue was analyzed using sequence-specific PCR, capillary electrophoresis, andpyrosequencing. The familial mutations were originally detected in the patients' first-degree relatives by commercial testing. The same testing detected nomutations in the blood of the patients under study. The test methods targetedonly the known familial mutation in the tumor tissue. Tumor diagnoses includedbreast, ovarian, endometrial and primary peritoneal carcinoma. None of thefamilial mutations were found in the tumor samples tested. These results do notsupport, but do not completely exclude, the possibility of chimerism in thesepatients. Further studies with comprehensive sequence analysis in a largerpatient group are warranted as a chimeric state would further refine thepredictive value of genetic testing to include BRCA phenocopies.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195497 PMCID: PMC5901986PMID: 29659587  [Indexed for MEDLINE]