84. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2018 Jun;159:211-222. doi:10.1016/j.cmpb.2018.03.018. Epub 2018 Mar 21.A topo-graph model for indistinct target boundary definition from anatomicalimages.Cui H(1), Wang X(2), Zhou J(3), Gong G(4), Eberl S(5), Yin Y(4), Wang L(6), Feng D(7), Fulham M(8).Author information: (1)Biomedical and Multimedia Information Technology Group, School of Information Technologies, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.(2)Biomedical and Multimedia Information Technology Group, School of Information Technologies, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. Electronic address:xiu.wang@sydney.edu.au.(3)Data61, CISRO, Sydney, Australia.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute,Jinan, China.(5)Biomedical and Multimedia Information Technology Group, School of Information Technologies, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Department of PET and Nuclear Medicine, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia.(6)Institute of Image Processing and Pattern Recognition, Department ofAutomation, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.(7)Biomedical and Multimedia Information Technology Group, School of Information Technologies, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia; Med-X ResearchInstitute, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.(8)Department of PET and Nuclear Medicine, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia; Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: It can be challenging to delineate the target object inanatomical imaging when the object boundaries are difficult to discern due to thelow contrast or overlapping intensity distributions from adjacent tissues.METHODS: We propose a topo-graph model to address this issue. The first step isto extract a topographic representation that reflects multiple levels oftopographic information in an input image. We then define two types of nodeconnections - nesting branches (NBs) and geodesic edges (GEs). NBs connect nodes corresponding to initial topographic regions and GEs link the nodes at a detailedlevel. The weights for NBs are defined to measure the similarity of regionalappearance, and weights for GEs are defined with geodesic and local constraints. NBs contribute to the separation of topographic regions and the GEs assist thedelineation of uncertain boundaries. Final segmentation is achieved bycalculating the relevance of the unlabeled nodes to the labels by theoptimization of a graph-based energy function. We test our model on 47 lowcontrast CT studies of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), 10contrast-enhanced CT liver cases and 50 breast and abdominal ultrasound images.The validation criteria are the Dice's similarity coefficient and the Hausdorffdistance.RESULTS: Student's t-test show that our model outperformed the graph models with pixel-only, pixel and regional, neighboring and radial connections (p-values<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that the topographic representation and topo-graphmodel provides improved delineation and separation of objects from adjacenttissues compared to the tested models.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2018.03.018 PMID: 29650314 