50. Acta Chir Plast. 2018 Spring;59(3-4):120-128.PATIENT SATISFACTION AFTER BREAST RECONSTRUCTION: IMPLANTS VS. AUTOLOGOUSTISSUES.Fracon S, Renzi N, Manara M, Ramella V, Papa G, Arnež ZM.INTRODUCTION: Breast reconstruction is increasingly present in the treatment ofbreast cancer. It may be accomplished with implants or autologous tissues. Thiscross-sectional study evaluates patients satisfaction and quality of life inwomen after successful autologous or implant breast reconstruction.MATERIAL AND METHODS: 109 women who successfully underwent breast reconstruction between 2007 and 2016 were included. The patients completed the BREAST-Qquestionnaire at follow-up visits. Additional data were collected retrospectivelyfrom the hospital charts regarding complications, smoking, chemotherapy,radiotherapy, unilateral or bilateral reconstruction, BMI and comorbidities.Mann-Whitney U Test was applied to evaluate differences between the autologousbreast reconstruction group (n = 50) and the implant breast reconstruction group (n = 59).RESULTS: Women with a successful autologous reconstruction were significantlymore satisfied with their reconstructed breasts than women with successfulalloplastic breast reconstruction as measured by the BREAST-Q breasts module (p =0. 00596), psycho-social well-being module (p=0.04) and sexual well-being module (p=0.00068). Furthermore, there is a higher degree of satisfaction in patientswho have not undergone radiotherapy, with no complications and with a normal BMI for implant reconstruction group as well as in non-smokers, and bilateralreconstructions for flap reconstruction group.DISCUSSION: The findings of our study are in agreement with the data found in theliterature, attributing greater satisfaction with physical, mental and socialwellbeing, as well as with elements having repercussion on sexual wellbeing, toautologous breast reconstruction.CONCLUSIONS: Autologous breast reconstruction leads to higher patientsatisfaction than implant breast reconstruction. This study may help patients andmedical teams in their decision-making process regarding breast reconstruction.This pilot study opens several questions that need further investigations in alarger prospective studyKeywords: Breast reconstruction, breast-Q, satisfaction, implant, autologous tissue.PMID: 29651851 