5. Psychooncology. 2018 Jul;27(7):1833-1839. doi: 10.1002/pon.4734. Epub 2018 May 4.Interprofessional, psycho-social intervention to facilitate resilience and reducesupportive care needs for patients with cancer: Results of a noncomparative,randomized phase II trial.Eicher M(1)(2), Ribi K(1)(3), Senn-Dubey C(2), Senn S(2), Ballabeni P(1),Betticher D(4).Author information: (1)Institute of Higher Education and Research in Health Care, Faculty of Biology and Medicine, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.(2)School of Health Sciences Fribourg, University of Applied Arts and SciencesWestern Switzerland, Fribourg, Switzerland.(3)International Breast Cancer Study Group, Coordinating Center, Bern,Switzerland.(4)Department of Medicine, Hospital Cantonal, Fribourg, Switzerland.OBJECTIVE: We developed 2 intensity levels of a complex intervention forinterprofessional supportive care in cancer (IPSC-C) to facilitate resilience andreduce unmet supportive care needs. We aimed to test the feasibility,acceptability, and preliminary effectiveness of both intensity levels in routine practice.METHODS: In a randomized, noncomparative phase II trial, newly diagnosed patientsreceived either low (LI-IPSC-C) or high (HI-IPSC-C) intensity interventions.Low-intensity-interprofessional supportive care in cancer (LI-IPSC-C) consistedof 3 electronic assessments of resilience, unmet supportive care needs, mood, andcoping effort over 16 weeks with an immediate feedback to clinicians includingtailored intervention recommendations to facilitate resilience and supportivecare. High-intensity-interprofessional supportive care in cancer (HI-IPSC-C)added 5 structured consultations (face-to-face and telephone) provided byspecialized nurses. Primary outcome was a change ≥5 in resilience score on theConnor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC). Secondary outcomes were unmetsupportive care needs, mood, and coping effort. We assessed feasibility byclinician-provided tailored interventions as recommended and acceptabilitythrough qualitative interviews with clinicians and patients.RESULTS: In the LI-IPSC-C arm, 11 of 41, in the HI-IPSC-C arm 17 of 43, patients increased resilience scores by ≥5. Relatively more patients decreased unmet needsin HI-IPSC-C arm. Mood, in both arms, and coping effort, in HI-IPSC-C arm,improved meaningfully. Feasibility was limited for the LI-IPSC-C arm, mainly due to lack of time; acceptability was high in both arms.CONCLUSION: Neither LI-IPSC-C nor HI-IPSC-C interventions reached the desiredthreshold. HI-IPSC-C showed positive effects on secondary outcomes and wasfeasible. Resilience as measured by the CD-RISC may not be the optimal outcomemeasure for this intervention.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4734 PMID: 29655277 