44. Tissue Eng Part A. 2018 Jul 3. doi: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2017.0509. [Epub ahead ofprint]An Engineered Human Adipose/Collagen Model for In Vitro Breast Cancer CellMigration Studies.Hume RD(1), Berry L(2), Reichelt S(2), D'Angelo M(1), Gomm J(3), Cameron RE(4),Watson CJ(1).Author information: (1)1 Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge , Cambridge, United Kingdom.(2)2 Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge , Cambridge,United Kingdom .(3)3 Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London , London, UnitedKingdom .(4)4 Department of Materials Science and Metallurgy, University of Cambridge ,Cambridge, United Kingdom .Adipocytes are one of the major stromal cell components of the human breast.These cells play a key role in the development of the gland and are implicated inbreast tumorigenesis. Frequently, directional stromal collagen I fibers are foundsurrounding aggressive breast tumors. These fibers enhance breast cancer cellmigration and are associated with poor patient prognosis. We sought torecapitulate these stromal components in vitro to provide a three-dimensional(3D) model comprising human adipose tissue and anisotropic collagen fibers. Wedeveloped a human mesenchymal stem cell (hMSC) cell line capable of undergoingdifferentiation into mature adipocytes by immortalizing hMSCs, isolated frombreast reduction mammoplasties, through retroviral transduction. Theseimmortalized hMSCs were seeded in engineered collagen I scaffolds withdirectional internal architecture, and adipogenesis was chemically induced,resulting in human adipose tissue being synthesized in vitro in an architectural structure associated with breast tumorigenesis. Subsequently, fluorescentlylabeled cells from an established breast cancer cell line were seeded into thismodel, cocultured for 7 days and imaged using multiphoton microscopy. Enhancedbreast cancer cell migration was observed in the adipose-containing model overempty scaffold controls, demonstrating an adipocyte-mediated influence on breast cancer cell migration. Thus, this 3D in vitro model recapitulates the migratoryeffects of adipocytes observed on breast cancer cells and suggests that it could have utility with fresh breast tumor biopsies as an assay for cancer therapeutic efficacy in personalized medicine strategies.DOI: 10.1089/ten.TEA.2017.0509 PMID: 29652604 