135. Br Med Bull. 2018 Jun 1;126(1):85-100. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldy011.The cost-effectiveness of follow-up strategies after cancer treatment: asystematic literature review.Barbieri M(1), Richardson G(1), Paisley S(2).Author information: (1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York, UK.(2)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield,Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, UK.Introduction: The cost of treatment and follow-up of cancer patients in the UK issubstantial. In a budget-constrained system such as the NHS, it is necessary toconsider the cost-effectiveness of the range of management strategies atdifferent points on cancer patients' care pathways to ensure that they provideadequate value for money.Sources of data: We conducted a systematic literature review to explore thecost-effectiveness of follow-up strategies of patients previously treated forcancer with the aim of informing UK policy. All papers that were considered to beeconomic evaluations in the subject areas described above were extracted.Areas of agreement: The existing literature suggests that intensive follow-up of patients with colorectal disease is likely to be cost-effective, but the oppositeholds for breast cancer.Areas of controversy: Interventions and strategies for follow-up in cancerpatients were variable across type of cancer and setting. Drawing generalconclusions about the cost-effectiveness of these interventions/strategies isdifficult.Growing points: The search identified 2036 references but applyinginclusion/exclusion criteria a total of 44 articles were included in theanalysis. Breast cancer was the most common (n = 11) cancer type followed bycolorectal (n = 10) cancer. In general, there were relatively few studies ofcost-effectiveness of follow-up that could influence UK guidance. Where there wasevidence, in the most part, NICE guidance broadly reflected this evidence.Areas timely to develop research: In terms of future research around the timing, frequency and composition of follow-ups, this is dependent on the type of cancer being considered. Nevertheless, across most cancers, the possibility of remotefollow-up (or testing) by health professionals other than hospital consultants inother settings appears to warrant further work.DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldy011 PMID: 29659715 