81. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2018 May;39(5):968-973. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A5630. Epub 2018Apr 12.Differentiating Atypical Hemangiomas and Metastatic Vertebral Lesions: The Roleof T1-Weighted Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI.Morales KA(1)(2), Arevalo-Perez J(1), Peck KK(1)(3), Holodny AI(1), Lis E(1),Karimi S(4).Author information: (1)From the Departments of Radiology (K.A.M., J.A.-P., K.K.P., A.I.H., E.L.,S.K.).(2)University of Puerto Rico Medical Sciences Campus (K.A.M.), San Juan, PuertoRico.(3)Medical Physics (K.K.P.), Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York,New York.(4)From the Departments of Radiology (K.A.M., J.A.-P., K.K.P., A.I.H., E.L.,S.K.) karimis@mskcc.org.BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Vertebral hemangiomas are benign vascular lesions thatare almost always incidentally found in the spine. Their classic typicalhyperintense appearance on T1- and T2-weighted MR images is diagnostic.Unfortunately, not all hemangiomas have the typical appearance, and they canmimic metastases on routine MR imaging. These are generally referred to asatypical hemangiomas and can result in misdiagnosis and ultimately additionalimaging, biopsy, and unnecessary costs. Our objective was to assess the utilityof dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging perfusion in distinguishing vertebralatypical hemangiomas and malignant vertebral metastases. We hypothesized thatpermeability and vascular density will be increased in metastases compared withatypical hemangiomas.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Consecutive patients from 2011 to 2015 with confirmeddiagnoses of atypical hemangiomas and spinal metastases from breast and lungcarcinomas with available dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging were analyzed.Time-intensity curves were qualitatively compared among the groups. Perfusionparameters, plasma volume, and permeability constant were quantified using anextended Tofts 2-compartment pharmacokinetic model. Statistical significance was tested using the Mann-Whitney U test.RESULTS: Qualitative inspection of dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imagingtime-intensity curves demonstrated differences in signal intensity and morphologybetween metastases and atypical hemangiomas. Quantitative analysis of plasmavolume and permeability constant perfusion parameters showed significantly highervalues in metastatic lesions compared with atypical hemangiomas (P < .001).CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that plasma volume and permeability constantperfusion parameters and qualitative inspection of contrast-enhancement curvescan be used to differentiate atypical hemangiomas from vertebral metastaticlesions. This work highlights the benefits of adding perfusion maps toconventional sequences to improve diagnostic accuracy.© 2018 by American Journal of Neuroradiology.DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A5630 PMCID: PMC5955841 [Available on 2018-11-01]PMID: 29650780 