171. Int J Cancer. 2018 Apr 15. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31523. [Epub ahead of print]PGE2 /EP4 antagonism enhances tumor chemosensitivity by inducing extracellularvesicle-mediated clearance of cancer stem cells.Lin MC(1), Chen SY(1), He PL(1), Herschman H(2)(3)(4), Li HJ(1).Author information: (1)Institute of Cellular and System Medicine, National Health ResearchInstitutes, Miaoli, 35053, Taiwan.(2)Department of Molecular & Medical Pharmacology, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA.(3)Department of Biological Chemistry, University of California, Los Angeles, LosAngeles, CA.(4)Molecular Biology Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, LosAngeles, CA.Cells expressing mesenchymal/basal phenotypes in tumors have been associated withstem cell properties. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are often resistant toconventional chemotherapy. We explored overcoming mesenchymal CSC resistance tochemotherapeutic agents. Our goal was to reduce CSC numbers in vivo, inconjunction with chemotherapy, to reduce tumor burden. Analysis of clinicalsamples demonstrated that COX-2/PGE2 /EP4 signaling is elevated in basal-like andchemoresistant breast carcinoma and is correlated with survival and relapse ofbreast cancer. EP4 antagonism elicts a striking shift of breast cancer cells froma mesenchymal/CSC state to a more epithelial non-CSC state. The transition wasmediated by EP4 antagonist-induced extracellular vesicles [(EVs)/exosomes] which removed CSC markers, mesenchymal markers, integrins, and drug efflux transportersfrom the CSCs. In addition, EP4 antagonism-induced CSC EVs/exosomes can converttumor epithelial/non-CSCs to mesenchymal/CSCs able to give rise to tumors and to promote tumor cell dissemination. Because of its ability to induce aCSC-to-non-CSC transition, EP4 antagonist treatment in vivo reduced the numbersof CSCs within tumors and increased tumor chemosensitivity. EP4 antagonisttreatment enhances tumor response to chemotherapy by reducing the numbers ofchemotherapy-resistant CSCs available to repopulate the tumor. EP4 antagonism cancollaborate with conventional chemotherapy to reduce tumor burden.© 2018 UICC.DOI: 10.1002/ijc.31523 PMID: 29658109 