188. Sci Transl Med. 2018 Apr 18;10(437). pii: eaap8562. doi:10.1126/scitranslmed.aap8562.Synthetic biology-based cellular biomedical tattoo for detection of hypercalcemiaassociated with cancer.Tastanova A(1), Folcher M(1), Müller M(1), Camenisch G(1), Ponti A(1), Horn T(1),Tikhomirova MS(1), Fussenegger M(2)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, ETH Zurich, Mattenstrasse26, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland.(2)Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering, ETH Zurich, Mattenstrasse26, CH-4058 Basel, Switzerland. fussenegger@bsse.ethz.ch.(3)Faculty of Science, University of Basel, Mattenstrasse 26, CH-4058 Basel,Switzerland.Diagnosis marks the beginning of any successful therapy. Because many medicalconditions progress asymptomatically over extended periods of time, their timely diagnosis remains difficult, and this adversely affects patient prognosis.Focusing on hypercalcemia associated with cancer, we aimed to develop a syntheticbiology-inspired biomedical tattoo using engineered cells that would (i) monitor long-term blood calcium concentration, (ii) detect onset of mild hypercalcemia,and (iii) respond via subcutaneous accumulation of the black pigment melanin toform a visible tattoo. For this purpose, we designed cells containing anectopically expressed calcium-sensing receptor rewired to a synthetic signalingcascade that activates expression of transgenic tyrosinase, which producesmelanin in response to persistently increased blood Ca2+ We confirmed that themelanin-generated color change produced by this biomedical tattoo could bedetected with the naked eye and optically quantified. The system was validated inwild-type mice bearing subcutaneously implanted encapsulated engineered cells.All animals inoculated with hypercalcemic breast and colon adenocarcinoma cellsdeveloped tattoos, whereas no tattoos were seen in animals inoculated withnormocalcemic tumor cells. All tumor-bearing animals remained asymptomaticthroughout the 38-day experimental period. Although hypercalcemia is alsoassociated with other pathologies, our findings demonstrate that it is possibleto detect hypercalcemia associated with cancer in murine models using thiscell-based diagnostic strategy.Copyright © 2018 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee AmericanAssociation for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aap8562 PMID: 29669854 