15. Przegl Epidemiol. 2018;72(1):99-109.Chance of reimbursement for ADD-ON therapies in Poland and in the world - review of the reimbursement recommendationsBorowiack E(1), Marzec M(1), Nowotarska A(1), Jarosz J(1), Orkisz A(1),Prząda-Machno P(2).Author information: (1)NUEVO HTA CLP(2)Pfizer LLCINTRODUCTION: Oncology drugs combined with standard therapies (so-called add-ontherapies, e.g. bevacizumab, palbociclib) often receive negative recommendations regarding the legitimacy of public financing, issued by government agenciesresponsible for their assessment, i.e. health technology assessment agencies. Theaim of the study was to estimate the scale of the problem related to thereimbursement of add-on therapies used in the treatment of breast andgenitourinary cancers in Poland and in the world.MATERIAL AND METHODS: A multimodal approach was used to select add-on therapies. The reimbursement routes were analysed in 8 reference countries (Poland, Canada, England, Wales, France, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand). Based on a systematic search, data for breast and urogenital cancers were included.RESULTS: A total of 68 reimbursement documents for add-on therapies wereidentified. The analysis showed that in Poland, 20% of innovative schemesincluding add-on therapies should be reimbursed, while in the world thepercentage of positive recommendations reaches 56%. It was observed that globally(including data for Poland) the chance for a favorable reimbursementrecommendation for add-on therapies is 53%, with 29% being positiverecommendations with limitations. In Poland, the majority of negativerecommendations concern genitourinary cancers in comparison to breast cancer (83%vs 75%).CONCLUSIONS: Poland is at the head of the countries in terms of the number ofnegative reimbursement recommendations. Bearing in mind the world’s need ofmodifying the criteria for the evaluation of oncological therapies in the contextof the possibility of their reimbursement, one should expect a change in theapproach to the assessment of the legitimacy of financing innovative add-ontherapies in Poland.PMID: 29667385 