100. Molecules. 2018 Apr 14;23(4). pii: E905. doi: 10.3390/molecules23040905.Carotenoid Lutein Selectively Inhibits Breast Cancer Cell Growth and Potentiates the Effect of Chemotherapeutic Agents through ROS-Mediated Mechanisms.Gong X(1), Smith JR(2), Swanson HM(3), Rubin LP(4)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Pediatrics, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas TechUniversity Health Sciences Center, El Paso, TX 79905, USA.Xiaoming.gong@ttuhsc.edu.(2)Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health SciencesCenter, El Paso, TX 79905, USA. J_smith898@yahoo.com.(3)Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health SciencesCenter, El Paso, TX 79905, USA. haley.swanson@ttuhsc.edu.(4)Department of Pediatrics, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas TechUniversity Health Sciences Center, El Paso, TX 79905, USA.lewis.rubin@ttuhsc.edu.(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, TexasTech University Health Sciences Center, El Paso, TX 79905, USA.lewis.rubin@ttuhsc.edu.Increasing evidence suggests that dietary carotenoids may reduce the risk ofbreast cancer. However, anti-breast cancer effects of carotenoids have beencontroversial, albeit understudied. Here, we investigated the effects of specificcarotenoids on a wide range of breast cancer cell lines, and found that amongseveral carotenoids (including β-carotene, lutein, and astaxanthin), luteinsignificantly inhibits breast cancer cell growth by inducing cell-cycle arrestand caspase-independent cell death, but it has little effect on the growth ofprimary mammary epithelial cells (PmECs). Moreover, lutein-mediated growthinhibition of breast cancer cells is quantitatively similar to that induced bychemotherapeutic taxanes, paclitaxel and docetaxel, and exposure to lutein plustaxanes additively inhibits breast cancer cell growth. Analysis of mechanismsshowed that lutein treatment significantly increases the intracellular reactiveoxygen species (ROS) production in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells,but not in normal PmECs. Lutein-induced growth inhibition is also attenuated bythe radical oxygen scavenger N-acetyl cysteine, suggesting a role for ROSgeneration in the growth inhibitory effect of lutein on TNBC cells. Additionally,we found that the p53 signaling pathway is activated and HSP60 levels areincreased by lutein treatment, which may contribute partly to the induction ofgrowth inhibition in TNBC cells. Our findings show that lutein promotes growthinhibition of breast cancer cells through increased cell type-specific ROSgeneration and alternation of several signaling pathways. Dietary luteinsupplementation may be a promising alternative and/or adjunct therapeuticcandidate against breast cancer.DOI: 10.3390/molecules23040905 PMID: 29662002 