29. Ann Transl Med. 2018 Mar;6(5):91. doi: 10.21037/atm.2017.08.18.Digital chest tomosynthesis: the 2017 updated review of an emerging application.Ferrari A(1), Bertolaccini L(2), Solli P(3), Di Salvia PO(4), Scaradozzi D(1)(5).Author information: (1)Dipartimento di Ingegneria dell'Informazione, Università Politecnica delleMarche, Ancona, Italy.(2)Department of Thoracic Surgery, AUSL Romagna Teaching Hospitals, Ravenna,Italy.(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, AUSL Bologna, Maggiore Bellaria TeachingHospitals, Bologna, Italy.(4)Agfa-Gevaert S.p.A., Cinisello Balsamo, MI, Italy.(5)LSIS, CNRS, UMR 7296, Marseille, France.Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death and second most common canceramong both men and women, but most of them are detected when patients becomesymptomatic and in late-stage. Chest radiography (CR) is a basic technique forthe investigation of lung cancer and has the benefit of convenience and lowradiation dose, but detection of malignancy is often difficult. The introduction of computed tomography (CT) for screening has increased the proportion of lungcancer detected but with higher exposure dose and higher costs. Digital chesttomosynthesis (DCT), a tomographic technique, may offer an alternative to CT. DCTuses a conventional radiograph tube, a flat-panel detector, a computer-controlledtube mover and reconstruction algorithms to produce section images. It showspromise in the detection of potentially malignant lung nodules, with highersensibility than CR, and is emerging as a low-dose and low-cost alternative to CTto improve treatment decisions. In fact, an increasing number of researchers are showing that tomosynthesis could have a role in the detection of lung cancer, in addition to its present role in breast screening. However, DCT offers somelimitations, such as limited depth resolution, which may explain the difficultyin detecting pathologies in the subpleural region and the occurrence of artefactsfrom medical devices. Once solved these limitations and once more studiessupporting its use will be available, DCT could become the first-line lung cancerscreening tool among patients at considerable risk of lung cancer.DOI: 10.21037/atm.2017.08.18 PMCID: PMC5890049PMID: 29666814 