Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.101. J Med Genet. 2018 Jun;55(6):372-377. doi: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2017-105188. Epub2018 Apr 16.Consensus for genes to be included on cancer panel tests offered by UK geneticsservices: guidelines of the UK Cancer Genetics Group.Taylor A(1), Brady AF(2), Frayling IM(3)(4), Hanson H(5), Tischkowitz M(1)(6),Turnbull C(7)(8)(9), Side L(10); UK Cancer Genetics Group (UK-CGG).Author information: (1)East Anglian Medical Genetics Service, Cambridge University Hospitals NHSFoundation Trust, Cambridge, UK.(2)North West Thames Regional Genetics Service, Northwick Park and St Mark'sHospitals, Harrow, UK.(3)All Wales Medical Genetics Service, Institute of Medical Genetics, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK.(4)Institute of Cancer & Genetics, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.(5)South West Thames Regional Genetics Service, St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.(6)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.(7)Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, The Institute of Cancer Research,London, UK.(8)South East Thames Regional Genetics Service, Guys and St Thomas NHS FoundationTrust, London, UK.(9)William Harvey Research Institute, Queen Mary University, London, UK.(10)Wessex Clinical Genetics Service, Princess Anne Hospital, Southampton, UK.Genetic testing for hereditary cancer predisposition has evolved rapidly inrecent years with the discovery of new genes, but there is much debate over theclinical utility of testing genes for which there are currently limited dataregarding the degree of associated cancer risk. To address the discrepancies thathave arisen in the provision of these tests across the UK, the UK Cancer GeneticsGroup facilitated a 1-day workshop with representation from the majority ofNational Health Service (NHS) clinical genetics services. Using a preworkshopsurvey followed by focused discussion of genes without prior majority agreementfor inclusion, we achieved consensus for panels of cancer genes with sufficientevidence for clinical utility, to be adopted by all NHS genetics services. Tosupport consistency in the delivery of these tests and advice given to familiesacross the country, we also developed management proposals for individuals whoare found to have pathogenic mutations in these genes. However, we fullyacknowledge that the decision regarding what test is most appropriate for anindividual family rests with the clinician, and will depend on factors including specific phenotypic features and the family structure.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/jmedgenet-2017-105188 PMID: 29661970 