7. PLoS One. 2018 Apr 18;13(4):e0193792. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193792.eCollection 2018.Correlated metabolomic, genomic, and histologic phenotypes in histologicallynormal breast tissue.Sun X(1), Stewart DA(2), Sandhu R(3), Kirk EL(1), Pathmasiri WW(2), McRitchieSL(2), Clark RF(4), Troester MA(1)(3)(5), Sumner SJ(2).Author information: (1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.(2)National Institutes of Health Eastern Regional Comprehensive MetabolomicsResource Core, Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Nutrition Research Institute, Kannapolis, North Carolina, United States of America.(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at ChapelHill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.(4)Analytical Chemistry and Pharmaceutics, RTI International, Durham, NorthCarolina, United States of America.(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, United States of America.Breast carcinogenesis is a multistep process accompanied by widespread molecular and genomic alterations, both in tumor and in surrounding microenvironment. It isknown that tumors have altered metabolism, but the metabolic changes in normal orcancer-adjacent, nonmalignant normal tissues and how these changes relate toalterations in gene expression and histological composition are not wellunderstood. Normal or cancer-adjacent normal breast tissues from 99 women of the Normal Breast Study (NBS) were evaluated. Data of metabolomics, gene expressionand histological composition was collected by mass spectrometry, whole genomemicroarray, and digital image, respectively. Unsupervised clustering analysisdetermined metabolomics-derived subtypes. Their association with genomic andhistological features, as well as other breast cancer risk factors, genomic andhistological features were evaluated using logistic regression. Unsupervisedclustering of metabolites resulted in two main clusters. The metabolitedifferences between the two clusters suggested enrichment of pathways involved inlipid metabolism, cell growth and proliferation, and migration. Compared withCluster 1, subjects in Cluster 2 were more likely to be obese (body mass index≥30 kg/m2, p<0.05), have increased adipose proportion (p<0.01) and associatedwith a previously defined Active genomic subtype (p<0.01). By the integratedanalyses of histological, metabolomics and transcriptional data, we characterizedtwo distinct subtypes of non-malignant breast tissue. Further research is needed to validate our findings, and understand the potential role of these alternationsin breast cancer initiation, progression and recurrence.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0193792 PMCID: PMC5905995PMID: 29668675  [Indexed for MEDLINE]