53. Biomacromolecules. 2018 Jun 11;19(6):2166-2181. doi: 10.1021/acs.biomac.8b00334. Epub 2018 Apr 25.Multistimuli-Responsive Amphiphilic Poly(ester-urethane) Nanoassemblies Based on l-Tyrosine for Intracellular Drug Delivery to Cancer Cells.Aluri R(1), Saxena S(1), Joshi DC(1), Jayakannan M(1).Author information: (1)Department of Chemistry , Indian Institute of Science Education and Research(IISER) Pune Dr. Homi Bhabha Road , Pune 411008 , Maharashtra , India.Multistimuli-responsive l-tyrosine-based amphiphilic poly(ester-urethane)nanocarriers were designed and developed for the first time to administeranticancer drugs in cancer tissue environments via thermoresponsiveness andlysosomal enzymatic biodegradation from a single polymer platform. For thispurpose, multifunctional l-tyrosine monomer was tailor-made with a PEGylated sidechain at the phenolic position along with urethane and carboxylic esterfunctionalities. Under melt dual ester-urethane polycondensation, the tyrosinemonomer reacted with diols to produce high molecular weight amphiphilicpoly(ester-urethane)s. The polymers produced 100 ± 10 nm spherical nanoparticles in aqueous medium, and they exhibited thermoresponsiveness followed by phasetransition from clear solution into a turbid solution in heating/cooling cycles. Variable temperature transmittance, dynamic light scattering, and 1H NMR studies revealed that the polymer chains underwent reversible phase transition fromcoil-to-expanded chain conformation for exhibiting the thermoresponsive behavior.The lower critical solution temperature of the nanocarriers was found tocorrespond to cancer tissue temperature (at 42-44 °C), which was explored as anextracellular trigger (stimuli-1) for drug delivery through the disassemblyprocess. The ester bond in the poly(ester-urethane) backbones readily underwentenzymatic biodegradation in the lysosomal compartments that served asintracellular stimuli (stimuli-2) to deliver drugs. Doxorubicin (DOX) andcamptothecin (CPT) drug-loaded polymer nanocarriers were tested for cellularuptake and cytotoxicity studies in the normal WT-MEF cell line and cervical(HeLa) and breast (MCF7) cancer cell lines. In vitro drug release studiesrevealed that the polymer nanoparticles were stable under physiologicalconditions (37 °C, pH 7.4) and they exclusively underwent disassembly at cancertissue temperature (at 42 °C) and biodegradation by lysosomal-esterase enzyme to deliver 90% of DOX and CPT. Drug-loaded polymer nanoparticles exhibited bettercytotoxic effects than their corresponding free drugs. Live cell confocalmicroscopy imaging experiments with lysosomal tracker confirmed the endocytosisof the polymer nanoparticles and their biodegradation in the lysosomalcompartments in cancer cells. The increment in the drug content in the cellsincubated at 42 °C compared to 37 °C supported the enhanced drug uptake by thecancer cells under thermoresponsive stimuli. The present work creates a newplatform for the l-amino acid multiple-responsive polymer nanocarrier platformfor drug delivery, and the proof-of-concept was successfully demonstrated forl-tyrosine polymers in cervical and breast cancer cells.DOI: 10.1021/acs.biomac.8b00334 PMID: 29664622 