127. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jun;73:400-411. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.04.020. Epub 2018 Apr 14.Estrone-modified pH-sensitive glycol chitosan nanoparticles for drug delivery in breast cancer.Yang H(1), Tang C(1), Yin C(2).Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Department of PharmaceuticalSciences, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China.(2)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Department of PharmaceuticalSciences, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China.Electronic address: chyin@fudan.edu.cn.Estrone-modified glycol chitosan nanoparticles (GCNP-ES) based on the mechanisms of ES-mediated endocytosis and intracellular pH-responsive drug release weredeveloped for the treatment of breast cancer. GCNP-ES were prepared by graftingcopolymerization of glycol chitosan with 2-(diisopropylamino)ethyl methacrylateto generate GCNP prior to ES conjugation. The particle size, zeta potential, and paclitaxel (PTX) encapsulation efficiency of GCNP-ES were characterized. Inparticular, GCNP-ES exhibited pH-responsive dissociation properties whilemaintaining stability under long-term storage and lyophilization. The drugrelease of PTX-loaded GCNP-ES (PTX/GNCP-ES) was modestly prolonged withconsiderable pH sensitivity. GCNP-ES promoted internalization in breast cancerMCF-7 cells by approximately 5-fold as compared to GCNP, and the internalizedGCNP-ES was mainly localized in the endosomes of MCF-7 cells. PTX/GNCP-ESexhibited higher cytotoxicity and cell apoptosis ratio than GCNP. In mice withMCF-7 breast cancer xenograft, PTX/GCNP-ES showed higher accumulation at thetumor site, which resulted in a higher tumor inhibition ratio (81.4%) than thatachieved by PTX/GCNP (69.4%) and PTX solution (48.8%). Furthermore, nohistological and hematological toxicity was detected in in vivo studies ofPTX/GCNP-ES. Overall, these results suggested the potential applicability ofGCNP-ES as a drug delivery system for breast cancer therapy.STATEMENT OFSIGNIFICANCE: Most breast cancers are hormone dependent. Herein, we developed aestrone-modified glycol chitosan nanoparticles (GCNP-ES) as a drug deliverysystem to overcome the drawbacks of chemotherpeutic drugs, including poor watersolubility and lack of specifity. GCNP-ES could provide efficient drug deliveryin breast cancer cells. The study demonstrated that GCNP-ES could dissociateunder mildly acidic conditions, leading to the timely payload release of the drugin target tumor cells following internalization. The conjugated estrone of thenanoparticles could significantly increase drug accumulation in the tumor siteand result in enhanced therapeutic effect. Thus, the potential applicability ofGCNP-ES was suggested.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.04.020 PMID: 29660508 