67. Environ Toxicol. 2018 Jul;33(7):729-742. doi: 10.1002/tox.22560. Epub 2018 Apr16.7,12-Dimethylbenz[α]anthracene increases cell proliferation and invasion through induction of Wnt/β-catenin signaling and EMT process.Kwon YJ(1), Ye DJ(1), Baek HS(1), Chun YJ(1).Author information: (1)College of Pharmacy, Chung-Ang University, 84 Heukseok-ro, Dongjak-gu, Seoul, 06974, Republic of Korea.7,12-Dimethylbenz[α]anthracene (DMBA) is a hazardous component present inpolluted environments. DMBA has been used as an experimental tool for in vivotumor formation owing to its carcinogenic effects, but the detailed molecularmechanism of DMBA has not been fully established. To comprehend the carcinogenic mechanism of DMBA, we explored its effects in the breast cancer cell lines, MCF-7and MDA-MB-231, and the cervical cancer cell line, HeLa. Cell viability assay andmeasurement of a proliferation marker showed that DMBA markedly increased cancer cell proliferation. Furthermore, morphological observations and wound healingassays in nontumorigenic MCF-10A cells and trans-well invasion assays in cancercells following DMBA treatment revealed that DMBA induced cell migration andinvasion. To reveal the molecular mechanism of DMBA, we investigated the effects of DMBA on the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process and Wnt/β-catenin signaling, a critical pathway for cell proliferation that was reported tocorrelate with the EMT process, by using quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR), western blotanalysis, and confocal microscopy. Consequently, we found that DMBA increasedcancer cell proliferation and invasion through the promotion of EMT-inducingfactors and β-catenin. Especially, it was revealed in promoter activity assayusing mutated luciferase vectors on transcription factor-binding sites thatTWIST1 is promoted by DMBA through induction of STAT3-mediated promoteractivation. To further elucidate the detailed mechanism of DMBA, we aimed toidentify the key regulator of its carcinogenic action. DMBA was shown tosignificantly upregulate the expression of specificity protein 1 (Sp1), atranscription factor, and the carcinogenic effects of DMBA were blocked via thesuppression or interruption of Sp1 activity. In conclusion, our data suggestedthat DMBA induced carcinogenic effects through activation of Wnt/β-cateninsignaling and the EMT process by upregulating Sp1 activity.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/tox.22560 PMID: 29663660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]