44. Int J Biol Macromol. 2018 Aug;115:401-417. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.04.066.Epub 2018 Apr 14.Comparative experimental/theoretical studies on the EGFR dimerization under theeffect of EGF/EGF analogues binding: Highlighting the importance of EGF/EGFRinteractions at site III interface.Mehrabi M(1), Mahdiuni H(2), Rasouli H(1), Mansouri K(1), Shahlaei M(3),Khodarahmi R(4).Author information: (1)Medical Biology Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences,Kermanshah, Iran.(2)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Razi University, Kermanshah, Iran.(3)Nano drug delivery research Center, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kermanshah Universityof Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran.(4)Medical Biology Research Center, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences,Kermanshah, Iran; Department of Pharmacognosy and Biotechnology, Faculty ofPharmacy, Kermanshah University of Medical Sciences, Kermanshah, Iran. Electronicaddress: rkhodarahmi@mbrc.ac.ir.Epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFRs) and their cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases play significant roles in cell proliferation and signaling. All the members ofthe EGFR/ErbB family are primary goals for cancer therapy, particularly fortumors of breast, cervix, ovaries, kidney, esophagus, prostate and non-small-celllung carcinoma and head and neck tumors. However, the therapeutic ability ofaccessible anti-ErbB agents is limited. Therefore, recognizing EGF analogues orsmall organic molecules with high affinity for the extracellular domain of theEGFR is a critical target on cancer research. An effective EGF analogue shouldhave a comparable binding affinity for EGFR in order to create an effectiveligand competitive inhibition against circulating wild EGF while fails totransduce appropriate downstream signaling into the cancer cell. In our earlierstudy we have developed a mutant form of human EGF (mEGF, lacking the fourcritical amino acid residues; Gln43, Tyr44, Arg45 and Asp46 at the C-terminal of the protein) and its binding properties and mitogenic activity were assessed. ThemEGF showed high affinity for EGFR binding domains but caused poor EGFRdimerization and phosphorylation and especially, mEGF induced EGFRinternalization. However, underlying mechanism of action of EGF analogues isstill unclear and thus considered to be worthwhile for further study. With regardto different effects of the EGF analogue on EGFR activating process,computational analysis of wild EGF/EGFR and mEGF/EGFR complexes (along withEGFt/EGFR complex) were done. Results of the protein dissection identifiedseveral interactions within "ligand/EGFR" that are common among EGF andEGFt/mEGF. These results disclose that while several interactions are conservedwithin EGF/EGFR interfaces, EGF/EGFR interactions on site III interface controls the affinity, EGFR dimerization and subsequent downstream signaling through aheterogeneous set of non-covalent interactions. These findings not only representthe EGFR dynamics complexity but also smooth the path for structure-based design of therapeutics targeting C-terminal region of EGF (and the related domain withinthe receptor) or EGFR-based imaging probes.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2018.04.066 PMID: 29665393 