64. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2018 May 14:1-17. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2018.1465854. [Epub ahead of print]Dynamics and structural stability effects of germline PTEN mutations associatedwith cancer versus autism phenotypes.Smith IN(1), Thacker S(1)(2), Jaini R(1)(3)(2), Eng C(1)(4)(5)(3)(2).Author information: (1)a Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic ,Cleveland , OH , USA.(2)e Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine , Cleveland , OH , USA.(3)d Germline High Risk Cancer Focus Group , Comprehensive Cancer Center, CaseWestern Reserve University School of Medicine , Cleveland , OH , USA.(4)b Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland Clinic , Cleveland , OH , USA.(5)c Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences, Case Westren Reserve University School of Medicine , Cleveland , OH , USA.Individuals with germline mutations in the tumor suppressor gene phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), irrespective of clinical presentation, are diagnosed with PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome (PHTS). PHTS confers a high risk of breast,thyroid, and other cancers or autism spectrum disorder (ASD) with macrocephaly.It remains unclear why mutations in one gene can lead to seemingly disparatephenotypes. Thus, we sought to identify differences in ASD vs. cancer-associated germline PTEN missense mutations by investigating putative structural effectsinduced by each mutation. We utilized a theoretical computational approachcombining in silico structural analysis and molecular dynamics (MD) tointerrogate 17 selected mutations from our patient population: six mutations wereobserved in patients with ASD (only), six mutations in patients withPHTS-associated cancer (only), four mutations shared across both phenotypes, and one mutation with both ASD and cancer. We demonstrate structural stabilitychanges where all six cancer-associated mutations showed a global decrease instructural stability and increased dynamics across the domain interface with aproclivity to unfold, mediating a closed (inactive) active site. In contrast,five of the six ASD-associated mutations showed localized destabilization thatcontribute to the partial opening of the active site. Our results lend insightinto distinctive structural effects of germline PTEN mutations associated withPTEN-ASD vs. those associated with PTEN-cancer, potentially aiding inidentification of the shared and separate molecular features that contribute toautism or cancer, thus, providing a deeper understanding of genotype-phenotyperelationships for germline PTEN mutations.DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2018.1465854 PMID: 29663862 