108. Gynecol Oncol. 2018 Jul;150(1):166-172. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2018.04.002. Epub2018 Apr 13.Abuse, cancer and sexual dysfunction in women: A potentially vicious cycle.Lees BF(1), Stewart TP(1), Rash JK(1), Baron SR(2), Lindau ST(3), Kushner DM(4).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, TheUniversity of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, UnitedStates.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Program in Integrative SexualMedicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States; Department ofPsychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, United States.(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Program in Integrative SexualMedicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, TheUniversity of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, UnitedStates. Electronic address: dmkushner@wisc.edu.More than 30% of women have a history of abuse. Women with cancer may be atsubstantially increased risk for abuse, but this issue is rarely discussed in thecourse of oncology care. Women with a history of abuse who present for cancercare commonly have a high prevalence of co-morbid illness. Sexual dysfunction, a highly prevalent but under-recognized condition among women of all ages, is also more common among both women with a history of abuse and women with cancer.Although common after cancer, sexual dysfunction, like abuse, can be stigmatizingand often goes undiagnosed and untreated. This review first examines theliterature for evidence of a relationship between any history of abuse and canceramong women, addressing two questions: 1) How does abuse promote or create riskfor developing cancer? 2) How does cancer increase a woman's susceptibility toabuse? We then examine evidence for a relationship between abuse and femalesexual dysfunction, followed by an investigation of the complex relationshipbetween all three factors: abuse, sexual dysfunction and cancer. The literatureis limited by a lack of harmonization of measures across studies, retrospectivedesigns, and small and idiosyncratic samples. Despite these limitations, it isimperative that providers integrate the knowledge of this complex relationshipinto the care of women with cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2018.04.002 PMID: 29661496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]