62. J Biomed Nanotechnol. 2018 Mar 1;14(3):510-525. doi: 10.1166/jbn.2018.2521.Selenium and Iron Oxide Nanocomposites for Magnetically-Targeted Anti-CancerApplications.Hauksdóttir HL, Webster TJ.Iron oxide nanoparticles (IONP) are already well-established in the medical fielddue to their ability to improve contrast in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and for their external magnetic control in the body. Moreover, selenium has beenshown to kill numerous cancer cells at lower concentrations that IONP (e.g., 1μg/ml). Selenium is a trace mineral of growing interest in cancer treatment sinceit is an essential nutrient in the human body and can interfere withthiolcontaining proteins necessary for cancer cells to function. For the abovereasons, the goal of this in vitro study was to combine the above chemistries forthe first time to develop composite nano-vehicles for magnetically targetedcancer therapy. The suggested design was an IONP core, stabilized by chitosan anddecorated with selenium. Two different types of IONP cores were produced. Thiswas followed by different chitosan and selenium coating methods. The particleswere characterized for size, shape, zeta potential and magnetic properties.Finally, the most promising products were tested for cancer killing properties onMB-231 breast cancer cells. Results of this pioneering study showed that the mostpromising iron-selenium nanocomposites consisted of an iron oxide core producedby thermal decomposition, followed by a silane ligand exchange, a chitosancoating and selenium decoration. The particles were 5-9 nm in diameter, with azeta potential of 29.59 mV and magnetic properties of 35.932 emu/g. Moreover, thenovel nanoparticles had concentration dependent cancer killing properties.Specifically, after just 1 day of incubation, breast cancer cell viability wasreduced to 40.5% in the presence of 1 μg/ml of these composite nanoparticles (andstatistically reduced at even 0.1 μg/ml), without using a chemotherapeuticpharmaceutical drug. This is a significant finding since neither chemotherapeuticpharmaceutical drugs, infrared stimulation, nor magnetism were used. In thismanner, this study introduces a brand new composite nanoparticle consisting ofiron oxide and selenium which should be further studied for a wide range ofmagnetically targeted anticancer applications.DOI: 10.1166/jbn.2018.2521 PMID: 29663923 