60. Chem Biol Interact. 2018 Jun 1;289:98-108. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.04.007. Epub2018 Apr 18.CHM-1, a novel microtubule-destabilizing agent exhibits antitumor activity viainducing the expression of SIRT2 in human breast cancer cells.Liu CW(1), Lin YC(2), Hung CM(3), Liu BL(4), Kuo SC(5), Ho CT(6), Way TD(7), HungCH(8).Author information: (1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Institute of Biotechnology and ChemicalEngineering, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(2)Division of Neurosurgery, Buddhist Tzu Chi General Hospital, Taichung Branch, Taiwan; School of Medicine, Tzu Chi University, Hualien, Taiwan; Department ofMedical Imaging and Radiological Science, Central Taiwan University of Scienceand Technology, Taichung, Taiwan.(3)Department of General Surgery, E-Da Hospital, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung,Taiwan; School of Medicine, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.(4)Department of Applied Chemistry, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taichung, Taiwan.(5)School of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Taichung,Taiwan.(6)Department of Food Science, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.(7)Department of Biological Science and Technology, College of Biopharmaceutical and Food Sciences, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan; Department ofHealth and Nutrition Biotechnology, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan. Electronicaddress: tdway@mail.cmu.edu.tw.(8)Department of Chemical Engineering and Institute of Biotechnology and ChemicalEngineering, I-Shou University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan. Electronic address:chhung@isu.edu.tw.Breast cancer is a major public health problem throughout the world. In thisreport, we investigated whether CHM-1, a novel synthetic antimitotic agent could be developed into a potent antitumor agent for treating human breast cancer.CHM-1 induced growth inhibition in MDA-MB-231, MDA-MB-453 and MCF-7 cells in aconcentration-dependent manner. Importantly, CHM-1 is less toxic to normal breast(HBL-100) cells. CHM-1 interacted with tubulin, markedly inhibited tubulinpolymerization, and disrupted microtubule organization. Proteins from control andCHM-1-treated animal tumor specimens were analyzed by two-dimensionalelectrophoresis and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Our results indicated that CHM-1increased the expression of SIRT2 protein, an NAD-dependent tubulin deacetylase. A prodrug strategy was also investigated to address the problem of low aqueoussolubility and low bioavailability of the antitumor agent CHM-1. Thewater-soluble prodrug of CHM-1 (CHM-1-P) was synthesized. After oral andintravenous administration, CHM-1-P induced a dose-dependent inhibition of tumor growth. The aforementioned excellent anti-tumor activity profiles of CHM-1 andits prodrug CHM-1-P, suggests that CHM-1-P deserves to further develop as aclinical trial candidate for treating human breast carcinoma.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.04.007 PMID: 29679549  [Indexed for MEDLINE]