Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this article and the planningcommittee members and staff have no relevant financial relationships withcommercial interests to disclose.103. Med Phys. 2018 Jun;45(6):2542-2559. doi: 10.1002/mp.12920. Epub 2018 May 9.An unsupervised automatic segmentation algorithm for breast tissue classificationof dedicated breast computed tomography images.Caballo M(1), Boone JM(2), Mann R(1), Sechopoulos I(1)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Radboud University MedicalCenter, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.(2)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Engineering, University of CaliforniaDavis Health, 4860 "Y" street, suite 3100 Ellison building, Sacramento, CA,95817, USA.(3)Dutch Expert Center for Screening (LRCB), PO Box 6873, 6503 GJ, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.PURPOSE: To develop and evaluate a new automatic classification algorithm toidentify voxels containing skin, vasculature, adipose, and fibroglandular tissue in dedicated breast CT images.METHODS: The proposed algorithm combines intensity- and region-based segmentationmethods with energy minimizing splines and unsupervised data mining approachesfor classifying and segmenting the different tissue types. Breast skinsegmentation is achieved by a region-growing method which uses constraints fromthe previously extracted skin centerline to add robustness to the model and toreduce the false positive rate. An energy minimizing active contour model is thenused to classify adipose tissue voxels by including gradient flow andregion-based features. Finally, blood vessels are separated from fibroglandulartissue by a k-means clustering algorithm based on automatically extractedshape-based features. To evaluate the accuracy of the algorithm, two sets of 15different patient breast CT scans, each acquired with different breast CT systemsand acquisition settings were obtained. Three slices from each scan were manuallysegmented under the supervision of an experienced breast radiologist andconsidered the gold standard. Comparisons with manual segmentation werequantified using five similarity metrics: Dice similarity coefficient (DSC),sensitivity, conformity coefficient, and two Hausdorff distance measures. Toevaluate the robustness to image noise, the segmentation was repeated afterseparately adding Gaussian noise with increasing standard deviation (in foursteps, from 0.01 to 0.04) to an additional 15 slices from the first dataset. Inaddition, to evaluate vasculature classification, three different pre- andpostcontrast injection patient breast CT images were classified and compared.Finally, DSC was also used for quantitative comparisons with previously proposed approaches for breast CT tissue classification using 10 images from the firstdataset.RESULTS: The algorithm showed a high accuracy in classifying the different tissuetypes for both breast CT systems, with an average DSC of 95% and 90% for thefirst and second image dataset, respectively. Furthermore, it demonstrated to be robust to image noise with a robustness to image noise of 85%, 83%, 79%, and 71% for the images corrupted with the four increasing noise levels. Previous methods for breast tissues classification resulted, for the tested dataset, in an averageglobal DSC of 87%, while our approach resulted in a global average DSC of 94.5%.CONCLUSIONS: The proposed algorithm resulted in accurate and robust breast tissueclassification, with no prior training or threshold setting. Potentialapplications include breast density quantification and tissue patterncharacterization (both biomarkers of cancer development), simulation-basedradiation dose analysis, and patient data-based phantom design, which could beused for further breast imaging research.© 2018 The Authors. Medical Physics published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. onbehalf of American Association of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mp.12920 PMCID: PMC5997547PMID: 29676025 