62. Biomed Chromatogr. 2018 Apr 21:e4264. doi: 10.1002/bmc.4264. [Epub ahead ofprint]Pharmacokinetic properties of wogonin and its herb-drug interactions withdocetaxel in rats with mammary tumors.Wang T(1), Long F(2), Jiang G(1), Cai H(1), Jiang Q(1), Cheng K(1), Hu Z(1), WangY(3).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacy, Sichuan Cancer Hospital and Institution, SichuanCancer Center, School of Medicine, University of Electronic Science andTechnology of China, Chengdu, China.(2)Department of Pharmacy, Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, SichuanProvincial Hospital for Women and Children, Women and Children's Hospital ofChengdu Medical College, Chengdu Medical College, Chengdu, China.(3)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and Cancer Center, West China Hospital,Sichuan University, and Collaborative Innovation Center for Biotherapy, Chengdu, China.Docetaxel, frequently used for the treatment of breast cancer, is mainlymetabolized via hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A in humans and is also asubstrate of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Wogonin has been shown to be able to modulatethe activities of CYPs and P-gp, and it could serve as an adjuvantchemotherapeutic agent. However, the impacts of co-administration of wogonin and docetaxel on their pharmacokinetics have not been studied because of a lack of ananalytical method for their simultaneous measurement. In the present study, weestablished an HPLC-MS/MS method for simultaneous measurement of wogonin anddocetaxel in rat plasma, and it was then utilized to explore the pharmacokineticsof wogonin and the herb-drug interactions between wogonin and docetaxel aftertheir combined administration in rats with mammary tumors. The rats received 10, 20 and 40 mg/kg wogonin via oral administration, with or without docetaxelintravenously administered at 10 mg/kg, and the plasma concentrations of wogonin and docetaxel were measured using the established and validated HPLC-MS/MSmethod. The Cmax and AUC0-t of wogonin were proportionally increased in the dose range from 10 to 40 mg/kg, suggesting a linear pharmacokinetics of wogonin.Moreover, the Cmax and AUC0-t of docetaxel and the AUC0-t of wogonin wereincreased after co-administration (p < 0.05), indicating increased in vivoexposures of both wogonin and docetaxel, which might lead to an increase in notonly therapeutic but also toxic effects. Thus the alterations of pharmacokineticsshould be taken into consideration when wogonin and docetaxel areco-administered.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/bmc.4264 PMID: 29679509 