125. Cell Death Differ. 2018 Apr 19. doi: 10.1038/s41418-018-0100-0. [Epub ahead ofprint]cIAP1 regulates the EGFR/Snai2 axis in triple-negative breast cancer cells.Majorini MT(1), Manenti G(2), Mano M(3), De Cecco L(4), Conti A(1)(5), Pinciroli P(4), Fontanella E(1), Tagliabue E(6), Chiodoni C(7), Colombo MP(7), Delia D(1), Lecis D(8)(9).Author information: (1)Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Molecular Mechanisms of Cell Cycle Control Unit,Milan, Italy.(2)Department of Predictive & Preventive Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS IstitutoNazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.(3)Functional Genomics and RNA-Based Therapeutics Laboratory, Center forNeuroscience and Cell Biology (CNC), University of Coimbra, Coimbra, 3060-197,Portugal.(4)Functional Genomics and Bioinformatics Core Facility, Department ofExperimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionaledei Tumori, Milan, Italy.(5)Center for Genomic Science of IIT@SEMM, Fondazione Istituto Italiano diTecnologia (IIT), Milan, Italy.(6)Department of Experimental Oncology & Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Molecular Targeting Unit, Milan, Italy.(7)Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Molecular Immunology Unit, Milan, Italy.(8)Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Molecular Mechanisms of Cell Cycle Control Unit,Milan, Italy. daniele.lecis@istitutotumori.mi.it.(9)Department of Experimental Oncology and Molecular Medicine, Fondazione IRCCSIstituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Molecular Immunology Unit, Milan, Italy.daniele.lecis@istitutotumori.mi.it.Inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) proteins constitute a family of conserved molecules that regulate both apoptosis and receptor signaling. They are often deregulatedin cancer cells and represent potential targets for therapy. In our work, weinvestigated the effect of IAP inhibition in vivo to identify novel downstreamgenes expressed in an IAP-dependent manner that could contribute to canceraggressiveness. To this end, immunocompromised mice engrafted subcutaneously withthe triple-negative breast cancer MDA-MB231 cell line were treated with SM83, aSmac mimetic that acts as a pan-IAP inhibitor, and tumor nodules were profiledfor gene expression. SM83 reduced the expression of Snai2, anepithelial-to-mesenchymal transition factor often associated with increasedstem-like properties and metastatic potential especially in breast cancer cells. By testing several breast cancer cell lines, we demonstrated that Snai2downregulation prevents cell motility and that its expression is promoted bycIAP1. In fact, the chemical or genetic inhibition of cIAP1 blocked epidermalgrowth factor receptor (EGFR)-dependent activation of the mitogen-activatedprotein kinase (MAPK) pathway and caused the reduction of Snai2 transcriptionlevels. In a number of breast cancer cell lines, cIAP1 depletion also resulted ina reduction of EGFR protein levels which derived from the decrease of its genetranscription, though, paradoxically, the silencing of cIAP1 promoted EGFRprotein stability rather than its degradation. Finally, we provided evidence thatIAP inhibition displays an anti-tumor and anti-metastasis effect in vivo. Inconclusion, our work indicates that IAP-targeted therapy could contribute to EGFRinhibition and to the reduction of its downstream mediators. This approach could be particularly effective in tumors characterized by high levels of EGFR andSnai2, such as triple-negative breast cancer.DOI: 10.1038/s41418-018-0100-0 PMID: 29674627 