49. Breast. 2018 Aug;40:45-52. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.04.011. Epub 2018 Apr 19.Controversies in monitoring metastatic breast cancer during systemic treatment.Results of a GIM (Gruppo Italiano Mammella) survey.Bonotto M(1), Basile D(2), Gerratana L(2), Pelizzari G(2), Bartoletti M(2),Vitale MG(2), Fanotto V(2), Lisanti C(2), Mansutti M(3), Minisini AM(3), AprileG(4), De Laurentiis M(5), Montemurro F(6), Del Mastro L(7), Puglisi F(8).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of Udine, Italy; School of MedicalOncology, Department of Medicine, University of Udine, Italy. Electronic address:bonottomarta@gmail.com.(2)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of Udine, Italy; School of MedicalOncology, Department of Medicine, University of Udine, Italy.(3)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of Udine, Italy.(4)Department of Oncology, San Bortolo General Hospital, ULSS8 Berica - EastDistrict, Vicenza, Italy.(5)Medical Oncology, IRCCS Fondazione Pascale, Napoli, Italy.(6)Investigative and Clinical Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute - FPO, IRCCS,Italy.(7)Department of Medicine, Università degli Studi di Genova, Ospedale PoliclinicoSan Martino, Genova, Italy.(8)School of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of Udine,Italy; Department of Clinical Oncology, CRO Aviano National Cancer Institute,Aviano, PN Italy.BACKGROUND: The optimal strategy for monitoring metastatic breast cancer (M-MBC) is unclear. Nevertheless, M-MBC influences patient's quality of life and itaffects the use of resources in terms of both drugs and diagnostic examprescription. We aim to disclose oncologists' approach on M-MBC, identifyingcontroversial areas.METHODS: An anonymous online survey was conducted among GIM members who, based ontheir on-field experience, shared their own method for M-MBC planning. Chi-squaretests and Fisher exact tests were used as appropriate.RESULTS: The survey was completed by 256 recipients (51%). The majority of themwere medical oncologists. Approximately 50% of respondents reported that M-MBCwas primarily based on the monitoring strategies used in clinical trials, and for70% of them M-MBC should be evidence-based. Areas of controversies included theprimary goal of M-MBC, the use of tumour markers, the optimal timing for baselineassessment and frequency of repeating testing. Respondents agreed on planningM-MBC before treatment's start and on discussing with the patient about the M-MBCstrategy and on choosing CT-scan as the preferred reassessment imaging method.The most relevant factors influencing the M-MBC strategy were performance status,triple negative histology, exam's contraindication, the presence of clinicallymeasurable disease, and treatment safety profile; on the contrary, patients'socio-economic status, exam's cost, and hospital's logistic limits were lessrelevant. Experienced oncologists seemed less prone to intensive follow-up.CONCLUSION: M-MBC strategy still has controversial issues and its potentialclinical effects for breast cancer patients need ad hoc studies.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.04.011 PMID: 29679936 