81. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul;44(7):963-968. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.03.009. Epub2018 Mar 21.Patient reported outcome measures in breast cancer patients.Lagendijk M(1), van Egdom LSE(2), Richel C(3), van Leeuwen N(4), Verhoef C(2),Lingsma HF(4), Koppert LB(2).Author information: (1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.Electronic address: mirelle.lagendijk@erasmusmc.nl.(2)Department of Surgical Oncology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.(3)Dutch Breast Cancer Patient Advocate Society, The Netherlands.(4)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.INTRODUCTION: In the International Consortium for Health Outcome Measures (ICHOM)breast cancer outcome set Patient Reported Outcome Measurements (PROMs) form animportant but rather innovative part. Few data exist on scores per type of breastsurgery and how to use scores in surgical practice. We evaluated PROM scores aswell as satisfaction with and expectations of the use of PROMs in breast cancerpatients using the national and local patient advocate society.METHODS: Through an online survey patients were asked to report age, type ofbreast cancer surgery (whether Breast Conserving Therapy (BCT), mastectomy,autologous or implant breast reconstruction) and time since surgery. PROMs(EORTC-QLQ-C30/BR23 and BREAST-Q postoperative modules) were compared for thedifferent surgeries. Additional comparison was made with literature normative andreference scores. Three questions evaluated satisfaction with PROMs andexpectations.RESULTS: 496 patients completed all PROMs and 487 thesatisfaction/expectation-questions. Significantly reduced physical functioningwas reported following BCT as compared to other surgeries and literaturereference values. Satisfaction scores were higher following autologousreconstruction and lower following implant reconstruction as compared to BCT. PROscores were comparable to normative and references scores except for the'physical functioning' (BREAST-Q) scores that reported lower in the presentstudy. Ninety-four percent of the participants was (highly) satisfied with futurePROM use.CONCLUSIONS: Statistical significant differences were found for PROMs followingdifferent types of breast surgery. The significance of these results shouldbecome clearer trough collection of future data. The great majority ofparticipants considered PROMs as (highly) acceptable and reacted positively ontheir proposed future use.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd, BASO ~ The Association for Cancer Surgery, and theEuropean Society of Surgical Oncology. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.03.009 PMID: 29678302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]