143. Clin Breast Cancer. 2018 Mar 14. pii: S1526-8209(17)30397-X. doi:10.1016/j.clbc.2018.03.007. [Epub ahead of print]Electrochemotherapy for Breast Cancer-Results From the INSPECT Database.Matthiessen LW(1), Keshtgar M(2), Curatolo P(3), Kunte C(4), Grischke EM(5),Odili J(6), Muir T(7), Mowatt D(8), Clover JP(9), Liew SH(10), Dahlstroem K(11), Newby J(12), Letulé V(13), Stauss E(5), Humphreys A(14), Banerjee S(15), KleinA(16), Rotunno R(3), de Terlizzi F(17), Gehl J(18).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Copenhagen University Hospital Herlev and Gentofte,Herlev, Denmark. Electronic address: louise.wichmann.matthiessen@regionh.dk.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, London, United Kingdom.(3)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties, Division ofDermatology, University of Rome "La Sapienza", Rome, Italy.(4)Department of Dermatologic Surgery and Dermatology, Artemed FachklinikMünchen, Munich, Germany; Department of Dermatology and Allergology,Ludwig-Maximilian University Munich, Munich, Germany.(5)Department of Gynecology, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.(6)Department of Plastic Surgery, St George's University Hospitals NHS FoundationTrust, London, United Kingdom.(7)Department of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery, James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough, United Kingdom.(8)Department of Plastic Surgery, The Christie Hospital, Manchester, UnitedKingdom.(9)Department of Plastic Surgery, Cork University Hospital and Cork CancerResearch Centre, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.(10)Merseyside Regional Burns and Plastic Surgery Unit, Whiston Hospital,Liverpool, United Kingdom.(11)Department of Plastic Surgery, Copenhagen University Hospital Herlev andGentofte, Herlev, Denmark.(12)Department of Medical Oncology, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust,London, United Kingdom.(13)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Ludwig-Maximilian UniversityMunich, Munich, Germany.(14)Department of Oncology, James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough, UnitedKingdom.(15)Department of Breast Surgery, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, London,United Kingdom; Division of Surgery and Interventional Science, UniversityCollege London, London, United Kingdom.(16)Department of Dermatologic Surgery and Dermatology, Artemed FachklinikMünchen, Munich, Germany.(17)IGEA Spa, Carpi, Italy.(18)Department of Oncology, Copenhagen University Hospital Herlev and Gentofte,Herlev, Denmark; Center for Experimental Drug and Gene Electrotransfer (C*EDGE), Department of Clinical Oncology and Palliative Care, Zealand University Hospital,Roskilde, Denmark; Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health and MedicalSciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.BACKGROUND: Cutaneous recurrence from breast cancer can pose a clinicalchallenge. It might be the only disease site, or could be part of disseminateddisease, and often profoundly affects quality of life. Electrochemotherapy is apalliative treatment using electric pulses to locally permeabilize tumor cellsand thereby significantly increase bleomycin cytotoxicity. Collaborating with theInternational Network for Sharing Practice on ElectroChemoTherapy (INSPECT), weconsecutively and prospectively accrued data on patients treated withelectrochemotherapy for cutaneous metastases from breast cancer.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients were treated with electrochemotherapy at 10European centers. Under either local or general anaesthesia patients were treatedwith either local injection (1000 IU/mL intratumoral) or systemic infusion(15,000 IU/m2) of bleomycin.RESULTS: One hundred nineteen patients were included at 10 institutions in theINSPECT network. The primary location was the chest (89%), the median diameter ofthe cutaneous metastases was 25 mm. Ninety patients were available for responseevaluation after 2 months. Complete response was observed in 45 patients (50%),partial response in 19 (21%), stable disease in 16 (18%), and progressive diseasein 7 (8%). Three patients were not evaluable. Common side effects wereulceration, long-lasting hyperpigmentation, and low-grade pain. No seriousadverse events were observed.CONCLUSION: Electrochemotherapy showed high response rates after a singletreatment. Electrochemotherapy has few side effects and can be used as an adjunctto systemic therapies or as a solo treatment. We therefore recommend considering electrochemotherapy for patients with cutaneous metastases.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2018.03.007 PMID: 29673795 