148. J Control Release. 2018 Jul 28;282:35-45. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.04.029.Epub 2018 Apr 16.Hyperthermia-mediated drug delivery induces biological effects at the tumor andmolecular levels that improve cisplatin efficacy in triple negative breastcancer.Dunne M(1), Dou YN(1), Drake DM(1), Spence T(1), Gontijo SML(2), Wells PG(3),Allen C(4).Author information: (1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,Canada.(2)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.(3)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,Canada; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Toronto,Toronto, Ontario, Canada.(4)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,Canada; Department of Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry, University ofToronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: cj.allen@utoronto.ca.Triple negative breast cancer is an aggressive disease that accounts for at least15% of breast cancer diagnoses, and a disproportionately high percentage ofbreast cancer related morbidity. Intensive research efforts are focused on thedevelopment of more efficacious treatments for this disease, for whichtherapeutic options remain limited. The high incidence of mutations in key DNArepair pathways in triple negative breast cancer results in increased sensitivityto DNA damaging agents, such as platinum-based chemotherapies. Hyperthermia hasbeen successfully used in breast cancer treatment to sensitize tumors toradiation therapy and chemotherapy. It has also been used as a mechanism totrigger drug release from thermosensitive liposomes. In this study, mildhyperthermia is used to trigger release of cisplatin from thermosensitiveliposomes in the vasculature of human triple negative breast cancer tumorsimplanted orthotopically in mice. This heat-triggered liposomal formulation ofcisplatin resulted in significantly delayed tumor growth and improved overallsurvival compared to treatment with either non-thermosensitive liposomescontaining cisplatin or free cisplatin, as was observed in two independent tumor models (i.e. MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-436). The in vitro sensitivity of the celllines to cisplatin and hyperthermia alone and in combination was characterizedextensively using enzymatic assays, clonogenic assays, and spheroid growthassays. Evaluation of correlations between the in vitro and in vivo resultsserved to identify the in vitro approach that is most predictive of the effectsof hyperthermia in vivo. Relative expression of several heat shock proteins andthe DNA damage repair protein BRCA1 were assayed at baseline and in response tohyperthermia both in vitro and in vivo. Interestingly, delivery of cisplatin inthermosensitive liposomes in combination with hyperthermia resulted in the mostsignificant tumor growth delay, relative to free cisplatin, in the lesscisplatin-sensitive cell line (i.e. MDA-MB-231). This work demonstrates thatthermosensitive cisplatin liposomes used in combination with hyperthermia offer anovel method for effective treatment of triple negative breast cancer.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.04.029 PMID: 29673642 