134. Breast. 2018 Aug;40:23-28. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.04.009. Epub 2018 Apr 16.Physical activity levels after treatment for breast cancer: Two-year follow-up.De Groef A(1), Geraerts I(2), Demeyer H(3), Van der Gucht E(2), Dams L(4), deKinkelder C(5), Dukers-van Althuis S(6), Van Kampen M(2), Devoogdt N(7).Author information: (1)KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences andUniversity Hospitals Leuven, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: an.degroef@kuleuven.be.(2)KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences andUniversity Hospitals Leuven, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Leuven, Belgium.(3)KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences andUniversity Hospitals Leuven, Department of Respiratory Diseases, Leuven, Belgium.(4)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences and Physiotherapy, Faculty of Medicineand Health Sciences, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.(5)Vrije Universiteit Brussel - Department of Physiotherapy, Physiology &Anatomy, Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium;Belgium and European College for Lymphology & Oncology, De Berekuyl/CSI-theNetherlands, The Netherlands.(6)Vrije Universiteit Brussel - Department of Physiotherapy, Physiology &Anatomy, Faculty of Physical Education and Physiotherapy, Brussels, Belgium.(7)KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Rehabilitation Sciences andUniversity Hospitals Leuven, Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Leuven, Belgium; University Hospitals Leuven, Department of Vascular Surgery,Leuven, Belgium.OBJECTIVES: Breast cancer treatment can have a considerable large and prolongedimpact on activity levels of breast cancer survivors. Therefore, the aim of thepresent study was to investigate the change in total physical activity level and occupational, sport and household activity levels of breast cancer survivors frompreoperatively up to 24 months after breast cancer surgery. Additionally,predictive factors for this change were investigated.METHODS: Patients with primary breast cancer (n = 267) filled in the FlemishPhysical Activity Computerized Questionnaire (FPACQ) before surgery and 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Patient-, disease- and treatment-related factors were analyzed as predictive factors for change in physical activity.RESULTS: Two years after surgery, all activity levels (total, occupational, sportand household) were still significantly lower compared to preoperative values.After the first 12 months, no significant improvements were seen for none of the activity levels, except for the occupational activity.CONCLUSIONS: Two years after breast cancer surgery, physical activity levels are still significantly lower compared to pre-operative values. Based on this limitedrecovery, it seems important to monitor physical activity levels in breast cancerpatients and advice these patients to stay active after surgery and return topre-operative activity levels in the long term as well. This study indicates the importance of long term monitoring and subsequently coaching of physical activityafter breast cancer surgery.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.04.009 PMID: 29674221 