136. Transl Oncol. 2018 Jun;11(3):732-742. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2018.03.009. Epub2018 Apr 16.Precision Medicine with Imprecise Therapy: Computational Modeling forChemotherapy in Breast Cancer.McKenna MT(1), Weis JA(2), Brock A(3), Quaranta V(4), Yankeelov TE(5).Author information: (1)Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science, Nashville, TN; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN.(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin,Austin, TX.(4)Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine,Nashville, TN.(5)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin,Austin, TX; Department of Diagnostic Medicine, The University of Texas at Austin,Austin, TX; Department of Oncology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin,TX; Institute for Computational and Engineering Sciences, The University of Texasat Austin, Austin, TX; Livestrong Cancer Institutes, The University of Texas atAustin, Austin, TX. Electronic address: thomas.yankeelov@utexas.edu.Medical oncology is in need of a mathematical modeling toolkit that can leverage clinically-available measurements to optimize treatment selection and schedulesfor patients. Just as the therapeutic choice has been optimized to match tumorgenetics, the delivery of those therapeutics should be optimized based onpatient-specific pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic properties. Under the currentapproach to treatment response planning and assessment, there does not exist anefficient method to consolidate biomarker changes into a holistic understandingof treatment response. While the majority of research on chemotherapies focus on cellular and genetic mechanisms of resistance, there are numerouspatient-specific and tumor-specific measures that contribute to treatmentresponse. New approaches that consolidate multimodal information into actionable data are needed. Mathematical modeling offers a solution to this problem. In thisperspective, we first focus on the particular case of breast cancer to highlight how mathematical models have shaped the current approaches to treatment. Then we compare chemotherapy to radiation therapy. Finally, we identify opportunities to improve chemotherapy treatments using the model of radiation therapy. We positthat mathematical models can improve the application of anticancer therapeuticsin the era of precision medicine. By highlighting a number of historical examplesof the contributions of mathematical models to cancer therapy, we hope that this contribution serves to engage investigators who may not have previouslyconsidered how mathematical modeling can provide real insights into breast cancertherapy.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.tranon.2018.03.009 PMCID: PMC6056758PMID: 29674173 