76. Cancer Radiother. 2018 May;22(3):205-210. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2017.10.007. Epub2018 Apr 17.Evaluation of acute skin toxicity of breast radiotherapy using thermography:Results of a prospective single-centre trial.Maillot O(1), Leduc N(2), Atallah V(3), Escarmant P(4), Petit A(2), BelhommeS(2), Sargos P(2), Vinh-Hung V(4).Author information: (1)Department of radiation oncology, hôpital Clarac, CHU de Martinique, avenuePasteur, 97200 Fort-de-France, France. Electronic address:maillotolivier@msn.com.(2)Department of radiation oncology, institut Bergonié, 229, cours de L'Argonne, 33800 Bordeaux, France.(3)Department of radiation oncology, CHU de Bordeaux, avenue Magellan, 33600Pessac, France.(4)Department of radiation oncology, hôpital Clarac, CHU de Martinique, avenuePasteur, 97200 Fort-de-France, France.PURPOSE: Radiotherapy is a common adjuvant treatment of breast cancer. Acuteradiation-induced dermatitis is a frequent side effect. We hypothesized whetherit is possible to capture the increase of local temperature as a surrogate of theinflammatory state induced by radiotherapy. We designed a prospective,observational, single-centre study to acquire data on temperature rise in thetreated breast during the course of radiotherapy, establish a possibleassociation with the occurrence of dermatitis and investigate the predictivevalue of temperature increase in future occurrences of radiation-induceddermatitis.PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients presenting for neoadjuvant or adjuvantradiotherapy during the course of breast cancer treatment at the universityhospital of Martinique were considered for inclusion. Every week, patients wereexamined by two trained investigators for the occurrence of radiation-induceddermatitis, graded based on Radiotherapy Oncology Group, Common TerminologyCriteria for Adverse Events v.4.0 and Wright scales. A frontal thermal image oftorso was taken in strictly controlled conditions, with a calibrated TE-Q1 camera(Thermal Expert, i3systems, Daejeon, Korea). We studied temperature differencesbetween the irradiated breast or thoracic wall and the contralateral area. Foreach thermal picture, we measured the difference in maximum temperature as wellas the difference in minimum temperature and the difference in the averagetemperature in the considered area. We studied the evolution of these parameters over time week after week, measuring the maximum recorded difference and itscorrelation to acute radiation dermatitis intensity.RESULTS: Sixty-four consecutive patients were included. For all patients, wenoticed an increase of temperature during the course of radiotherapy. Difference in maximum, minimum and average temperature was higher between the two breasts ofpatients with a radiation-induced dermatitis grade 2 or above compared topatients with no or mild dermatitis. Higher temperatures were also significantly associated with an increased sensation of discomfort, as recorded byquestionnaire (P<0.05).CONCLUSION: As expected from the inflammatory phenomena involved inradiation-induced dermatitis, a noticeable increase in temperature during thecourse of radiotherapy was seen in all patients. Furthermore, high-graderadiation-induced dermatitis was strongly associated with an additional increase in local temperature, which is probably linked to the intense inflammatoryreaction. Lastly, with a 1.4°C threshold set beforehand, it is possible toanticipate the occurrence of radiation-induced dermatitis, with interestingpositive and negative predictive values of 70% and 77%, respectively in ourpopulation. We note that these results need to be confirmed in a dedicated study.Copyright © 2018 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). Publishedby Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2017.10.007 PMID: 29678596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]