Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have noconflicts of interest to declare.15. Int J Mol Cell Med. 2017 Summer;6(3):190-196. doi: 10.22088/acadpub.BUMS.6.3.190.Epub 2017 Sep 26.Detection of Toxoplasma gondii DNA in Malignant Breast Tissues in Breast CancerPatients.Kalantari N(1)(2), Ahangar Darabi Z(3)(2), Siadati S(4), Nikbakhsh N(5), Ghasemi M(1), Ghaffari T(6), Ghaffari S(7), Bayani M(3).Author information: (1)Cellular and Molecular Biology Research Center, Health Research Institute,Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.(2)First two authors have equal contribution.(3)Infectious Diseases and Tropical Medicine Research Center, Babol University ofMedical Sciences, Babol, Iran.(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Babol University of MedicalSciences, Babol, Iran.(5)Department of Surgery, Cancer Research Center, Babol University of MedicalSciences, Babol, Iran.(6)Student Research Committee, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.(7)Department of Parasitology and Mycology, Faculty of Medicine, Babol Universityof Medical Sciences, Babol, Iran.Breast cancer is the most prevalent malignancy in women throughout the world.Similar to other cancers, a strong relationship between breast cancer andenvironmental factors such as infectious agents has been reported. Toxoplasmagondii is a protozoan parasite which may play a role in cancer induction. Thepresent study aimed to investigate a possible association between a history of T.gondii infection and breast cancer by detecting T. gondii DNA in malignant andnon-malignant breast and lymph nodes tissues from breast cancer patients withlatent toxoplasmosis. Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue blocks frommalignant/non-malignant breast and lymph nodes were obtained from twenty-ninebreast cancer patients who were positive for anti-Toxoplasma antibodies (IgG).FFPE tissue blocks were deparaffinized using hot water method, and DNA wasextracted. A conventional PCR analysis was performed to amplify partial regionsof T. gondii B1 and REP-529 genes. Ninety-three samples from 29 patients wereexamined. All patients were negative for anti-T. gondii antibodies (IgM). T.gondii DNA was detected in 3 (10.3%) patients by PCR analysis of either B1 orREP-529 genes. These include two malignant breast and one normal lymph nodesamples. Sequence analysis of these genes showed a good similarity withpreviously published B1 and REP-529 sequences of T. gondii in NCBI GenBank. This study did not find any association between T. gondii infection and breast cancer.Furthermore, it is the first molecular identification of T. gondii in FFPE tissuesamples obtained from breast cancer patients.DOI: 10.22088/acadpub.BUMS.6.3.190 PMCID: PMC5898643PMID: 29682491 