169. J Am Coll Radiol. 2018 Apr 20. pii: S1546-1440(18)30319-3. doi:10.1016/j.jacr.2018.03.001. [Epub ahead of print]Patient Navigation to Improve Cancer Screening in Underserved Populations:Reported Experiences, Opportunities, and Challenges.Neal CD(1), Weaver DT(1), Raphel TJ(1), Lietz AP(1), Flores EJ(2), Percac-LimaS(3), Knudsen AB(1), Pandharipande PV(4).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,Massachusetts; Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts GeneralHospital, Boston, Massachusetts.(2)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,Massachusetts.(3)Massachusetts General Hospital Chelsea Healthcare Center, Chelsea,Massachusetts; General Medicine Division, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,Massachusetts.(4)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,Massachusetts; Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts GeneralHospital, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address: pari@mgh-ita.org.Our goal is to define patient navigation for an imaging audience, present afocused selection of published experiences with navigation programs for breastand colorectal cancer screening, and expose principal barriers to the success of such programs. Despite numerous advances in the early detection of cancers, many patients still present with advanced disease. A disproportionate number arelow-income minority patients who experience worse health outcomes than theirwhite or more financially stable counterparts. Patient navigation, which aims to assist the medically underserved by overcoming specific barriers to care, mayrepresent one solution to narrowing disparities. Related research suggests thatin general, patient navigation programs that have addressed breast or colorectal cancer screening have been successful in improving screening rates and timelinessof follow-up care. However, although beneficial, navigation is expensive and may present an unmanageable financial burden for many health care centers. Toovercome this challenge, navigation efforts will likely need to target thosepatients that are most likely to benefit. Further research to identify suchpatients will be critically important for improving the sustainability ofnavigation programs, and, in turn, for realizing the benefits of such programs inreducing cancer disparities.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2018.03.001 PMID: 29685346 