200. Psychooncology. 2018 Apr 23. doi: 10.1002/pon.4745. [Epub ahead of print]Relationships between self-reported sleep quality components and cognitivefunctioning in breast cancer survivors up to 10 years following chemotherapy.Henneghan AM(1)(2), Carter P(1), Stuifbergan A(1), Parmelee B(3), Kesler S(2).Author information: (1)School of Nursing, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA.(2)University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(3)School of Nursing, University of Texas Health Science Center Houston, Houston,TX, USA.OBJECTIVE: Links have been made between aspects of sleep quality and cognitivefunction in breast cancer survivors (BCS), but findings are heterogeneous. Theobjective of this study is to examine relationships between specific sleepquality components (latency, duration, efficiency, daytime sleepiness, sleepdisturbance, use of sleep aids) and cognitive impairment (performance andperceived), and determine which sleep quality components are the most significantcontributors to cognitive impairments in BCS 6 months to 10 years postchemotherapy.METHODS: Women 21 to 65 years old with a history of non-metastatic breast cancer following chemotherapy completion were recruited. Data collection includedsurveys to evaluate sleep quality and perceived cognitive impairments, andneuropsychological testing to evaluate verbal fluency and memory. Descriptivestatistics, bivariate correlations, and hierarchical multiple regression werecalculated.RESULTS: Ninety women (mean age 49) completed data collection. Moderatesignificant correlations were found between daytime dysfunction, sleepefficiency, sleep latency, and sleep disturbance and perceived cognitiveimpairment (Rs = -0.37 to -0.49, Ps < .00049), but not objective cognitiveperformance of verbal fluency, memory, or attention. After accounting forindividual and clinical characteristics, the strongest predictors of perceivedcognitive impairments were daytime dysfunction, sleep efficiency, and sleepdisturbance.CONCLUSIONS: Findings support links between sleep quality and perceived cognitiveimpairments in BCS and suggest specific components of sleep quality (daytimedysfunction, sleep efficiency, and sleep disturbance) are associated withperceived cognitive functioning in this population. Findings can assistclinicians in guiding survivors to manage sleep and cognitive problems and aid inthe design of interventional research.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4745 PMID: 29683228 