167. Curr Probl Diagn Radiol. 2018 Mar 28. pii: S0363-0188(18)30007-0. doi:10.1067/j.cpradiol.2018.03.003. [Epub ahead of print]Comparing the Performances of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Size vs Pharmacokinetic Parameters to Predict Response to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy and Survival inPatients With Breast Cancer.Dogan BE(1), Yuan Q(2), Bassett R(3), Guvenc I(4), Jackson EF(5), CristofanilliM(6), Whitman GJ(4).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, TX; Department of Diagnostic Radiology, The University of TexasSouthwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX. Electronic address:basak.dogan@utsouthwestern.edu.(2)Department of Radiology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, TX.(3)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX.(4)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX.(5)Department of Medical Physics, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.(6)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, TX.PURPOSE: To compare the value of dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonanceimaging-pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters vs tumor volume in predicting breastcancer neoadjuvant chemotherapy response (NACR) and patient survival.SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Sixty-six patients with locally advanced breast cancer who underwent breast MRI monitoring of NACR were retrospectively analyzed. Wecompared baseline transfer constant (Ktrans), reflux rate contrast (kep), andextracellular extravascular volume fraction (ve) with the same parametersobtained at early postchemotherapy MRI, and examined model-independent changes intime-intensity curves (maximum slope, contrast enhancement ratio, and IAUC90).Tumor size changes (tumor volume, single dimension, and Response EvaluationCriteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]) were also analyzed. The Spearman correlationtest was used to assess the association between size and PK parameters, andregression analysis to assess the association with 5-year disease-free survival.RESULTS: Higher ve values at baseline were associated with greater decreases intumor size (P = 0.008). Changes in Ktrans and IAUC90 were the strongestpredictors of NACR. Changes in IAUC90 (P = 0.04) and RECIST (P = 0.003) wereindependently associated with pathologic response. The only parametersignificantly associated with 5-year survival was change in RECIST (P = 0.001).However, there was a trend toward statistical significance for changes in ve and Ktrans, with greater changes associated with longer survival.CONCLUSION: Changes in PK and dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonanceimaging kinetic parameters may have a role in predicting NACR in breast tumors.Although changes in Ktrans and IAUC90 are helpful in predicting NACR, they do notshow significant association with survival. Early RECIST size change measured by MRI remains the strongest predictor of overall patient survival.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1067/j.cpradiol.2018.03.003 PMID: 29685400 