10. Analyst. 2018 May 29;143(11):2520-2530. doi: 10.1039/c8an00145f.Gene expression data and FTIR spectra provide a similar phenotypic description ofbreast cancer cell lines in 2D and 3D cultures.Smolina M (1), Goormaghtigh E .Author information: (1)Laboratory for the Structure and Function of Biological Membranes, Center for Structural Biology and Bioinformatics, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels,Belgium. egoor@ulb.ac.be.Thirteen breast cancer cell lines were grown in traditional two-dimensional (2D) monolayer and three-dimensional (3D) laminin-rich extracellular matrix (lrECM)culture models. Microarray-based transcriptional profiling data were publishedfor these cell lines under both culture conditions. Colonies embedded in Matrigelmatrix were fixed in formalin, embedded in paraffin and cut into 4 μm thicksections. The sections were mounted onto infrared-transparent barium fluoridewindows and deparaffinized for Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) imaging. Samplesconsisting of Matrigel-coated 2D-grown cells followed the same processingprocedure, simplifying comparison with 3D-cultured cells as well as withroutinely prepared formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens. Geneexpression was found to be dominated by the cell line genome. Cluster analysisfirst groups the same cell line samples, independent of whether cells have beengrown in 2D or 3D cultures. FTIR spectroscopy first groups by culture conditions when considering the full spectrum length. The paper reports two importantresults. First, both gene expression level and FTIR spectroscopy are multivariatetechniques that contain sufficient information to identify uniquely both any cellline (among thirteen breast cancer cell lines) and phenotype induced by growingthe cells in 2D or 3D lrECM cultures. Second, we established the presence of astrong correlation between gene expression patterns and FTIR spectral data forthe thirteen breast cancer cell lines grown in both 2D and 3D lrECM cultures.These results suggest that, although based on completely different principles,the two approaches describe similarly the patterns of variations in cells.DOI: 10.1039/c8an00145f PMID: 29682671 