118. Eur J Pharm Biopharm. 2018 Jul;128:156-169. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2018.04.023. Epub2018 Apr 22.Self-assembled amphiphilic zein-lactoferrin micelles for tumor targetedco-delivery of rapamycin and wogonin to breast cancer.Sabra SA(1), Elzoghby AO(2), Sheweita SA(3), Haroun M(3), Helmy MW(4),Eldemellawy MA(5), Xia Y(6), Goodale D(6), Allan AL(7), Rohani S(8).Author information: (1)Cancer Nanotechnology Research Laboratory (CNRL), Faculty of Pharmacy,Alexandria University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt; Department of Chemical andBiochemical Engineering, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,Canada; Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Graduate Studies and Research, Alexandria University, Alexandria 21526, Egypt.(2)Cancer Nanotechnology Research Laboratory (CNRL), Faculty of Pharmacy,Alexandria University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt; Department of IndustrialPharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt.Electronic address: ahmed_elzoghby@alexu.edu.eg.(3)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Graduate Studies and Research,Alexandria University, Alexandria 21526, Egypt.(4)Cancer Nanotechnology Research Laboratory (CNRL), Faculty of Pharmacy,Alexandria University, Alexandria 21521, Egypt; Department of Pharmacology andToxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Damanhour University, Damanhour, Egypt.(5)Pharmaceutical and Fermentation Industries Development Center (PFIDC), Cityfor Scientific Research and Technological Applications (SRTA-City), New Borg ElArab, 21934 Alexandria, Egypt.(6)London Regional Cancer Program, London Health Sciences Centre, London,Ontario, Canada.(7)London Regional Cancer Program, London Health Sciences Centre, London,Ontario, Canada; Department of Anatomy & Cell Biology, Schulich School ofMedicine & Dentistry, The University of Western University, London, Ontario,Canada.(8)Department of Chemical and Biochemical Engineering, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: srohani@uwo.ca.Protein-based micelles have shown significant potential for tumor-targeteddelivery of anti-cancer drugs. In this light, self-assembled nanocarriers basedon GRAS (Generally recognized as safe) amphiphilic protein co-polymers weresynthesized via carbodiimide coupling reaction. The new nano-platform is composedof the following key components: (i) hydrophobic zein core to encapsulate thehydrophobic drugs rapamycin (RAP) and wogonin (WOG) with high encapsulationefficiency, (ii) hydrophilic lactoferrin (Lf) corona to enhance the tumortargeting, and prolong systemic circulation of the nanocarriers, and (iii)glutaraldehyde (GLA)-crosslinking to reduce the particle size and improvemicellar stability. Zein-Lf micelles showed relatively rapid release of WOGfollowed by slower diffusion of RAP from zein core. This sequential release mayaid in efflux pump inhibition by WOG thus sensitizing tumor cells to RAP action. Interestingly, these micelles showed good hemocompatibility as well as enhancedserum stability owing to the brush-like architecture of Lf shell. Moreover, this combined nano-delivery system maximized synergistic cytotoxicity of RAP and WOGin terms of tumor inhibition in MCF-7 breast cancer cells and Ehrlich ascitestumor animal model as a result of enhanced active targeting. Collectively,GLA-crosslinked zein-Lf micelles hold great promise for combined RAP/WOG deliveryto breast cancer with reduced drug dose, minimized side effects and maximizedanti-tumor efficacy.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2018.04.023 PMID: 29689288 