155. Front Immunol. 2018 Apr 9;9:652. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00652. eCollection 2018.Notch Signaling in Macrophages in the Context of Cancer Immunity.Palaga T(1)(2), Wongchana W(2)(3), Kueanjinda P(2)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University,Bangkok, Thailand.(2)Center of Excellence in Immunology and Immune-Mediated Diseases, ChulalongkornUniversity, Bangkok, Thailand.(3)Institute of Biological Products, Department of Medical Sciences, Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand.(4)Laboratory for Systems Pharmacology, Department of Pharmacology, Faculty ofMedicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.Macrophages play both tumor-suppressing and tumor-promoting roles depending onthe microenvironment. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are often associatedwith poor prognosis in most, but not all cancer. Understanding how macrophagesbecome TAMs and how TAMs interact with tumor cells and shape the outcome ofcancer is one of the key areas of interest in cancer therapy research. Notchsignaling is involved in macrophage activation and its effector functions. Notch signaling has been indicated to play roles in the regulation of macrophageactivation in pro-inflammatory and wound-healing processes. Recent evidencepoints to the involvement of canonical Notch signaling in the differentiation of TAMs in a breast cancer model. On the other hand, hyperactivation of Notchsignaling specifically in macrophages in tumors mass has been shown to suppresstumor growth in an animal model of cancer. Investigations into how Notchsignaling is regulated in TAMs and translates into pro- or anti-tumor functionsare still largely in their infancy. Therefore, in this review, we summarize thecurrent understanding of the conflicting roles of Notch signaling in regulatingthe effector function of macrophages and the involvement of Notch signaling inTAM differentiation and function. Furthermore, how Notch signaling in TAMsaffects the tumor microenvironment is reviewed. Finally, the direct or indirectcross-talk among TAMs, tumor cells and other cells in the tumor microenvironment via Notch signaling is discussed along with the possibility of its clinicalapplication. Investigations into Notch signaling in macrophages may lead to amore effective way for immune intervention in the treatment of cancer in thefuture.DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00652 PMCID: PMC5900058PMID: 29686671 