37. Cytokine. 2018 Apr 19. pii: S1043-4666(18)30150-9. doi:10.1016/j.cyto.2018.04.006. [Epub ahead of print]Tumor inherent interferons: Impact on immune reactivity and immunotherapy.Brockwell NK(1), Parker BS(2).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, La Trobe Institute for MolecularScience, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.(2)Department of Biochemistry and Genetics, La Trobe Institute for MolecularScience, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address:Belinda.Parker@latrobe.edu.au.Immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment, with sustained responses toimmune checkpoint inhibitors reported in a number of malignancies. Suchtherapeutics are now being trialed in aggressive or advanced cancers that areheavily reliant on untargeted therapies, such as triple negative breast cancer.However, responses have been underwhelming to date and are very difficult topredict, leading to an inability to accurately weigh up the benefit-to-risk ratiofor their implementation. The tumor immune microenvironment has been closelylinked to immunotherapeutic response, with superior responses observed inpatients with T cell-inflamed or 'hot' tumors. One class of cytokines, the type Iinterferons, are a major dictator of tumor immune infiltration and activation.Tumor cell inherent interferon signaling dramatically influences the immunemicroenvironment and the expression of immune checkpoint proteins, henceregulators and targets of this pathway are candidate biomarkers ofimmunotherapeutic response. In support of a link between IFN signaling andimmunotherapeutic response, the combination of type I interferon inducers withcheckpoint immunotherapy has recently been demonstrated critical for a sustained anti-tumor response in aggressive breast cancer models. Here we review evidencethat links type I interferons with a hot tumor immune microenvironment, response to checkpoint inhibitors and reduced risk of metastasis that supports their useas biomarkers and therapeutics in oncology.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.cyto.2018.04.006 PMID: 29681426 