168. J Geriatr Oncol. 2018 Apr 21. pii: S1879-4068(18)30135-8. doi:10.1016/j.jgo.2018.03.021. [Epub ahead of print]Low levels of intra-tumoural T cells in breast cancer identify clinically frailpatients with shorter disease-specific survival.Speigl L(1), Grieb A(2), Janssen N(1), Hatse S(3), Brouwers B(4), Smeets A(5),Floris G(6), Bailur JK(1), Kenis C(7), Neven P(8), Wildiers H(9), Pawelec G(10), Shipp C(11).Author information: (1)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Tübingen, Germany.(2)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Tübingen, Germany.Electronic address: alexandra.grieb@student.uni-tuebingen.de.(3)Laboratory of Experimental Oncology (LEO), Department of Oncology, KU, Leuven,Belgium; Department of General Medical Oncology, University Hospital Leuven,Leuven Cancer Institute, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address:sigrid.hatse@kuleuven.be.(4)Laboratory of Experimental Oncology (LEO), Department of Oncology, KU, Leuven,Belgium.(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, University Hospital Leuven, Belgium.Electronic address: ann.smeets@uzleuven.be.(6)Leuven Multidisciplinary Breast Center, University Hospital Leuven, Belgium;Department of Imaging and Pathology, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. Electronicaddress: giuseppe.floris@uzleuven.be.(7)Department of General Medical Oncology, University Hospital Leuven, LeuvenCancer Institute, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address: cindy.kenis@uzleuven.be.(8)Leuven Multidisciplinary Breast Center, University Hospital Leuven, Belgium.Electronic address: patrick.neven@uzleuven.be.(9)Laboratory of Experimental Oncology (LEO), Department of Oncology, KU, Leuven,Belgium; Department of General Medical Oncology, University Hospital Leuven,Leuven Cancer Institute, Leuven, Belgium; Leuven Multidisciplinary Breast Center,University Hospital Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address:hans.wildiers@uzleuven.be.(10)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Tübingen, Germany;John van Geest Cancer Research Centre, Nottingham Trent University, UK; Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London, London, UK; Health Sciences NorthResearch Institute, 41 Ramsey Lake Road, Sudbury, ON, Canada. Electronic address:graham.pawelec@uni-tuebingen.de.(11)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Tübingen, Germany;Natural and Medical Sciences Institute (NMI) at the University of Tübingen,Germany. Electronic address: mrchristophershipp@gmail.com.OBJECTIVES: The global health status of older patients with cancer influencestheir clinical course, but little is known regarding the influence of the immune system on the global health of older patients with cancer. The goal of this studywas to assess the relationships between patient fitness/frailty status andsurvival, and the local tumour immune environment of older patients with breastcancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a cohort of 58 older patients with breast cancer (over 70 years of age), fluorescence microscopy was used to investigate whether levels of intra-tumoural T cells (CD3+) and granulocytic cells (CD15+) could predictclinical outcome, and/or whether they correlated with patient physical and mentalperformance as evaluated by comprehensive geriatric assessment.RESULTS: We observed that patients with higher levels of intra-tumoural T cellswere fitter according to a number of clinical health measures including G8(p = 0.006), Karnofsky Index (p = 0.0372), and Leuven Oncology Frailty Score(LOFS) (p = 0.0187). In contrast, high relative levels of granulocytic cells werefound in patients with poorer clinical health (LOFS, p = 0.0474). Furthermore,high levels of T cells but not granulocytic cells were associated with longerbreast cancer-specific survival (p = 0.0444).CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to show that low relative levels ofintra-tumoural T cells are associated with inferior patient fitness. In contrast to T cells, we observed that intra-tumoural granulocytic cells displayed aninverse relationship with patient performance. Further research is needed todetermine whether boosting the level of intra-tumoural T cells in older non-fitpatients can result in improved outcome.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2018.03.021 PMID: 29685380 