121. Hum Pathol. 2018 Jul;77:121-129. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2018.04.002. Epub 2018Apr 22.Decreased expression of microRNA-26b in locally advanced and inflammatory breast cancer.Ding Q(1), Wang Y(1), Zuo Z(2), Gong Y(3), Krishnamurthy S(3), Li CW(4), LaiYJ(4), Wei W(5), Wang J(6), Manyam GC(6), Diao L(6), Zhang X(7), Lin F(1),Symmans WF(1), Sun L(1), Liu CG(8), Liu X(8), Debeb BG(9), Ueno NT(9), HaranoK(10), Alvarez RH(9), Wu Y(1), Cristofanilli M(11), Huo L(12).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, TX.(2)Department of Hematopathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX.(3)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, TX; Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic,The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.(4)Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas MDAnderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.(5)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX.(6)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University ofTexas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.(7)Department of Gynecologic Oncology and Reproductive Medicine, The Universityof Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.(8)Department of Experimental Therapeutics, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX.(9)Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic, TheUniversity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX; Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.(10)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX.(11)Department of Hematology & Oncology, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.(12)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, TX; Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic,The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX. Electronicaddress: leihuo@mdanderson.org.Advanced-stage breast cancer patients comprise a smaller proportion of breastcancer patients than do early stage patients and are more likely to experience a poor outcome. Understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms and identifyingnew biomarkers for treatment in this subgroup of patients is paramount. With the aim of identifying microRNAs that are regulated in advanced-stage breast cancer, we found lower expression of miR-26b, a member of the miR-26 family, ininflammatory breast cancer and noninflammatory locally advanced breast cancertissue than in normal breast tissue, by quantitative real-time polymerase chainreaction and in situ hybridization. Quantitative real-time polymerase chainreaction (but not in situ hybridization) also revealed lower miR-26b expressionin inflammatory breast cancer than in noninflammatory locally advanced breastcancer. Furthermore, lower expression of miR-26b was correlated with shorterdistant metastasis-free survival and overall survival in univariate analysis, andwith shorter overall survival in multivariate analysis. The expression ofmiRNA-26b was inversely associated with EZH2 protein expression in several breastcancer cell lines, and overexpression and knockdown of miR-26b causedcorresponding changes in EZH2 expression. Our study shows that miR-26b mayregulate EZH2 expression in breast cancer and may be useful as a therapeutictarget for inflammatory breast cancer and noninflammatory locally advanced breastcancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2018.04.002 PMID: 29689244 