127. Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2018 Apr 24:1-10. doi:10.1080/21691401.2018.1453829. [Epub ahead of print]Evaluation of a novel biocompatible magnetic nanomedicine based onbeta-cyclodextrin, loaded doxorubicin-curcumin for overcoming chemoresistance in breast cancer.Rastegar R(1), Akbari Javar H(1)(2), Khoobi M(3), Dehghan Kelishadi P(3), HosseinYousefi G(4), Doosti M(5), Hossien Ghahremani M(6), Shariftabrizi A(7),Imanparast F(8), Gholibeglu E(9), Gholami M(6).Author information: (1)a Department of Pharmaceutical Biomaterials , Tehran University of MedicalSciences , Tehran , Iran.(2)b Department of Pharmaceutics , Tehran University of Medical Sciences , Tehran, Iran.(3)c Medical Biomaterials Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences , Tehran , Iran.(4)d Department of Pharmaceutics , Shiraz University of Medical Sciences , Shiraz, Iran.(5)e Department of Clinical Biochemistry , Tehran University of Medical Sciences , Tehran , Iran.(6)f Department of Pharmaceutical Toxicology , Tehran University of MedicalSciences , Tehran , Iran.(7)g Department of Radiology , University of Pittsburgh Medical Center ,Pittsburgh , PA , USA.(8)h Department of Medical Biochemistry , Irak University of Medical Sciences ,Irak , Iran.(9)i Department of Organic Chemistry , Zanjan University , Zanjan , Iran.Codelivery of chemo-sensitizers with chemotherapeutics using combo nanomedicineis a promising platform for overcoming chemoresistance in breast cancer. However,tumor accumulation of nano-carriers based on enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect is confounded by heterogeneity in tumor microenvironment. Adsorptionof protein corona on surface of nanoparticle boost up clearance byreticulo-endothelial system. In this study, a surface functionalized magneticnanocomposite (NC) for codelivery of doxorubicin (DOX) and curcumin (CUR) isdeveloped. NCs were coated with hydroxyapatite and were also cross linked withβ-cyclodextrin. NCs efficiently encapsulated DOX and CUR. Release of CUR and DOX were in a sustained pH-depended pattern. β-cyclodextrin functionalization reducedprotein corona according sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gelelectrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) analysis. As shown by flowcytometric and confocalmicroscopy analyses, NCs internalized efficiently by human breast carcinoma cellsMCF-7 and adriamycin resistant MCF-7 (MCF-7/adr) cells.3-(4,5-Dimethyl-thiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) testdemonstrated superior cytotoxicity of DOX-CUR loaded NCs. Anti-tumor efficacyanalyses confirmed reduction in relative tumor volume size (RTV%) compared tocontrol group. Western blot analyses demonstrated marginal CUR mediatedP-glycoprotein (P-gp) down regulation. DOX-CUR loaded NCs efficiently accumulatedinto the tumor via external magnet guidance. Nevertheless, the increased tumoraccumulation did not correlate with pharmacologic responses such as RTV% andsignificant superiority over free DOX was not observed.DOI: 10.1080/21691401.2018.1453829 PMID: 29688063 