47. Clin Breast Cancer. 2018 Aug;18(4):e587-e594. doi: 10.1016/j.clbc.2018.03.006.Epub 2018 Mar 12.The Challenge of Evaluating Adnexal Masses in Patients With Breast Cancer.Reinert T(1), Nogueira-Rodrigues A(2), Kestelman FP(3), Ashton-Prolla P(4),Graudenz MS(5), Bines J(6).Author information: (1)Hospital do Câncer Mãe de Deus, Porto Alegre, Brazil; Programa dePós-Graduação em Ciências Médicas, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul(UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.(2)Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG), Belo Horizonte, Brazil; BrazilianGroup of Gynecologic Oncology (EVA), Belo Horizonte, Brazil; DOM Oncologia, MinasGerais, Brazil.(3)Clinica Cavallieri, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.(4)Departamento de Genética e Programa de Pós-Graduação em Genética e BiologiaMolecular, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre,Brazil; Laboratório de Medicina Genômica, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre,Porto Alegre, Brazil.(5)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Médicas, Universidade Federal do RioGrande do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil; Departamento de Patologia,Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil;Instituto de Patologia, Porto Alegre, Brazil.(6)Instituto Nacional de Câncer (INCA), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Electronicaddress: jose_bines@yahoo.com.This narrative literature review addresses the problem of an adnexal massdiscovered during the course of breast cancer (BC) care, which may represent abenign condition, a metastatic process, or a primary ovarian cancer (OC),clinical scenarios associated with distinct physiopathology and prognosis.Furthermore, the coexistence of BC and OC in the same patient may be owing to ahereditary disorder, deserving specific management strategies and counseling. Theinitial detection and evaluation of an adnexal mass in a patient with BC requiresa high index of suspicion, and the initial workup should include a thoroughmedical history and physical examination, measurement of tumor markers, complete blood count, and imaging tests. Transvaginal ultrasonography remains the standardtool, and findings suggestive of malignancy include bilateral tumors, thickseptations, predominance of a solid component, Doppler flow to the solidcomponent, and ascites. From the pathology point of view, features that aresuggestive of metastatic disease include bilaterality, mild ovarian enlargement, vascular emboli, no omental deposits, and the absence of transition from benignto malignant epithelium. Although there is a considerable overlap in OC and BCimmunohistochemical profiles, BC usually stain positive for GCDFP-15 and negativefor vimentine, PAX8, and WT1, and OC often stain positive for CK7, PAX8, WT1, andto mesothelin. Genetic counselling should always be indicated in this clinicalscenario. In conclusion, diagnostic spectrum of an ovarian mass in a patient withBC is broad, and a systematic multi-professional strategy is necessary to conductthese challenging cases.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2018.03.006 PMID: 29680194 