5. Med Sci Monit. 2018 Apr 23;24:2476-2488.A Panel of Serum Noncoding RNAs for the Diagnosis and Monitoring of Response toTherapy in Patients with Breast Cancer.Huang SK(1)(2)(3), Luo Q(4), Peng H(5)(3), Li J(1), Zhao M(5)(3), Wang J(6), GuYY(5)(3), Li Y(5)(3), Yuan P(7), Zhao GH(8), Huang CZ(5)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, National Cancer Center and Cancer Hospital,Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing,China (mainland).(2)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology,Department of Etiology andCarcinogenesis, National Cancer Center and Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy ofMedical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China (mainland).(3)Beijing Key Laboratory for Carcinogenesis and Cancer Prevention, Beijing,China (mainland).(4)Department of Oncology, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University,Zunyi, Guizhou, China (mainland).(5)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, Department of Etiology andCarcinogenesis, National Cancer Center and Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy ofMedical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China (mainland).(6)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Meitan General Hospital, Beijing, China(mainland).(7)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Center and Cancer Hospital,Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing,China (mainland).(8)Department of Transfusion Medicine, National Cancer Center and CancerHospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College,Beijing, China (mainland).BACKGROUND The aim of this study was to identify a panel of serum noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) as potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for breast cancer.MATERIAL AND METHODS Patients with breast cancer (n=30), and normal controls(n=30) were included in the 'training set.' A 'validation set' included cases of breast cancer (n=128) and controls (n=77). All cases provided blood samples forserum analysis. All cases of breast cancer were confirmed histologically and werestaged. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR)was used to detect the expression of 11 candidate ncRNAs, including longnoncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs), in the serum. The expression of the panel of ncRNAs was further analyzed following surgery or chemotherapy.RESULTS The four ncRNAs identified in the serum of patients with breast cancerincluded let-7a, miR-155, miR-574-5p, and metastasis-associated lungadenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1). Analysis based on the risk score showedthat the panel of these four ncRNAs could effectively distinguish betweenpatients with breast cancer and the control group. For the training set and thevalidation set, analysis of the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curveshowed that the areas under the curve (AUCs) were 0.960 and 0.968, respectively. Also, the serum expression levels of the four ncRNAs differed in thepre-treatment and the post-treatment patients with breast cancer, with levels of miR-155 showing a significant decrease following chemotherapy. CONCLUSIONS Apanel of serum ncRNAs, including let-7a, miR-155, miR-574-5p, and MALAT1, wasshown to be present in patients with breast cancer.PMCID: PMC5935014PMID: 29683112 