149. Horm Cancer. 2018 Aug;9(4):240-253. doi: 10.1007/s12672-018-0332-y. Epub 2018 Apr23.The Impact of Hormonal Contraceptives on Breast Cancer Pathology.Dorchak JA(1)(2), Maria S(2), Guarinoni JL(2), Duensing A(3), Somiari S(1),Cavanaugh J(2), Deyarmin B(1), Hu H(1), Iida J(1), Shriver CD(4), Witt-EnderbyPA(5).Author information: (1)Chan Soon-Shiong Institute of Molecular Medicine at Windber, Windber, PA, USA.(2)Division of Pharmaceutical, Administrative and Social Sciences, DuquesneUniversity School of Pharmacy, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, Cancer TherapeuticsProgram, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.(4)Department of Surgery, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Bethesda,MD, USA.(5)Division of Pharmaceutical, Administrative and Social Sciences, DuquesneUniversity School of Pharmacy, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. wittp@duq.edu.This retrospective case series study, using data obtained through questionnaires and histopathological diagnoses from 656 patients enrolled in the Department ofDefense (DoD) Clinical Breast Care Project (CBCP), evaluated associations betweenhormonal contraceptive use and breast cancer pathology including benign breastpathologies. Three combination hormonal contraceptive agents (COCs) Lo Ovral(LO), Ortho Novum (ON), and Ortho Tri-Cyclen (OTC) were evaluated as theyrepresented the most commonly used hormonal contraceptives in our cohort. Theresults of this study suggest that the ever use of LO + ON + OTC does notinfluence the overall incidence of benign breast condition or malignant diseasecompared to other COCs; however, patients that have used OTC had an associationwith a diagnosis of benign or luminal A pathologies whereas ON was associatedwith a diagnosis of benign and DCIS; LO showed no association with anydiagnosis-benign or malignant. Patients that have used LO or ON were more likely to be diagnosed with breast cancer at age ≥ 40 years whereas patients that hadever used OTC were likely to be diagnosed before the age of 40. Caucasians wereless likely to have used OTC and more likely to have used ON; however, use ofeither hormonal agent positively correlated with premenopausal status atdiagnosis and having a benign condition. Age at diagnosis, ethnicity, BMI, familyhistory, menstruation status, and duration of use were all independent predictorsof different histopathological subtypes. We conclude that patient-specificvariables should be considered when deciding on which type of hormonalcontraceptive to use to minimize the risk of developing breast cancer or abreast-related pathology.DOI: 10.1007/s12672-018-0332-y PMID: 29687205 