193. Int J Rehabil Res. 2018 Sep;41(3):189-196. doi: 10.1097/MRR.0000000000000288.The effect of preoperative exercise on upper extremity recovery following breast cancer surgery: a systematic review.Yang A(1), Sokolof J(2), Gulati A(3).Author information: (1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at MountSinai.(2)Departments of Rehabilitation Medicine.(3)Anesthesiology and Critical Care, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York, USA.Prehabilitation benefits among patients undergoing various oncological surgeries have been demonstrated. However, the effects of presurgical exercise and fitness on postoperative ipsilateral upper extremity recovery outcomes in patients withbreast cancer surgery are less evident. A systematic review was performed toassess the effects of preoperative exercise and fitness on postmastectomyrecovery. Systematic literature search was performed in 12 electronic databases. Study eligibility was accessed using the PICOS (Participants, Interventions,Comparison, Outcome and Study Design) criteria. Six eligible studies were found: three cohort-control and three prospective observational studies. Onerandomized-controlled trial showed that prehabilitation was beneficial inshoulder range of motion (ROM) and upper extremity functional recovery. Onecohort-control study demonstrated that preoperative exercises reducedpostoperative pain without increasing the risk of developing a seroma. Aprospective cohort study showed that preoperatively active individuals had asignificantly better chance of feeling recovered physically at 3 weeks aftersurgery. Baseline ipsilateral grip strength, shoulder flexion, and abduction ROM were reliable predictors of shoulder flexion and abduction ROM and grip strength improvements at 1 month following breast cancer surgery. One study showed thatpreoperative conditioning alone without postoperative rehabilitation wasinsufficient to aid recovery. Implementing exercise program and optimizingpreoperative fitness, especially shoulder ROM, before breast cancer surgery inconjunction with individualized rehabilitation program may benefit postmastectomyipsilateral upper extremity recovery.DOI: 10.1097/MRR.0000000000000288 PMID: 29683834 