174. Cancer Epidemiol. 2018 Jun;54:82-89. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.02.007. Epub 2018 Apr 21.Ethnic disparity in breast cancer survival in southern Thai women.Virani S(1), Wetzel EC(2), Laohawiriyakamol S(3), Boonyaphiphat P(4), GeaterA(5), Kleer CG(6), Pang J(6), Rentschler KM(2), Colacino JA(2), de Leon CFM(7),Rozek LS(8), Sriplung H(9).Author information: (1)Epidemiology Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University,Songkhla, Thailand; Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of PublicHealth, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA.(2)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA.(3)Department of Surgery Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University,Songkhla, Thailand.(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University,Songkhla, Thailand.(5)Epidemiology Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University,Songkhla, Thailand.(6)Department of Pathology University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA.(7)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Michigan,Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(8)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA. Electronic address: rozekl@umich.edu.(9)Epidemiology Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University,Songkhla, Thailand. Electronic address: hutcha.s@psu.ac.th.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer has the highest incidence in women of all cancers andits burden is expected to continue to increase worldwide, especially inmiddle-income countries such as Thailand. The southern region of Thailand isunique in that it is comprised of 30% Muslims, whereas the rest of Thailand is95% Buddhist. Breast cancer incidence and survival differ between these religiousgroups, but the association between clinical subtype of breast cancer andsurvival has not yet been assessed.METHODS: Here we characterized differences in breast cancer survival withconsideration to clinical subtype by religious group (Muslim Thai and BuddhistThai women). We compared distributions of age, stage and clinical subtype andassessed overall survival by religion.RESULTS: Our findings show that Muslim Thai women with breast cancer arediagnosed at a younger age, at later stages and have shorter overall survivaltimes compared to Buddhist Thai women with breast cancer. We also observe ahigher proportion of triple negative tumors characterized in Muslim Thai women.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm previous studies that have shown lower survivalrates in Muslim Thai women compared to Buddhist women with breast cancer andoffer novel information on subtype distribution. To date, this is the first studyassessing clinical subtypes in southern Thailand by religious status.IMPACT: Our findings are critical in providing information on the role ofclinical subtype in cancer disparities and provide evidence from the SoutheastAsian region for global studies on breast cancer survival.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.02.007 PMID: 29684800 