75. Int J Mol Med. 2018 Jul;42(1):579-588. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2018.3638. Epub 2018 Apr23.Emodin inhibits epithelial‑mesenchymal transition and metastasis of triplenegative breast cancer via antagonism of CC‑chemokine ligand 5 secreted fromadipocytes.Song X(1), Zhou X(1), Qin Y(2), Yang J(2), Wang Y(1), Sun Z(1), Yu K(1), ZhangS(1), Liu S(2).Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, Pudong Branch of Longhua Hospital, ShanghaiUniversity of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai 200032, P.R. China.(2)Department of General Surgery and Pharmacology Laboratory of TraditionalChinese Medicine, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional ChineseMedicine, Shanghai 200032, P.R. China.Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) has the lowest survival rate of thebreast cancer subtypes owing to its aggressive and metastatic behavior. It hasbeen reported that peritumoral adipose tissue contributes to the cellinvasiveness and dissemination of TNBC. Emodin is an active anthraquinonederivative isolated from Rheum palmatum, with anticancer properties that havebeen reported to inhibit lung metastasis in a nude mouse xenograft model. In the present study, the effects of emodin on human TNBC cells and adipocytes wereinvestigated in vivo and in vitro. The TNBC cell lines MDA‑MB‑231 and MDA‑MB‑453 were co‑cultured with human adipocytes and treated with either emodin orepirubicin. Cell proliferation was assessed by MTT assay and migration andinvasion were examined using a wound healing assay and a Transwell assay.interleukin‑8, CC‑chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5) and insulin‑like growth factor‑1levels in the culture supernatants were detected by ELISA. Theepithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT) or metastasis associated markers weredetermined by western blot analysis. Nude mice fed with a high fat and sugar dietwere used investigate the in vivo effect of emodin. The results showed thatemodin inhibited TNBC proliferation and invasion more efficiently than epirubicinwhen co‑cultured with adipocytes by downregulating the level of CCL5 in adipocytesupernatants; inhibiting the expression level of protein kinase B (AKT); andactivating glycogen synthase kinase‑3i (GSK3) and β‑catenin. This led to thesuppressed expression of EMT‑ and invasion‑associated markers, includingvimentin, snail, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)‑2 and MMP‑9, and upregulation of E‑cadherin, contributing to the inhibition of invasion. The in vivo assay showed that emodin inhibited tumor growth, and suppressed the lung and liver metastasis of TNBC cells by decreasing the secretion of CCL5 in mice fed a high fat andsugar diet more efficiently when compared with epirubicin. In conclusion, emodin inhibited the secretion of CCL5 from adipocytes, inhibited the EMT of TNBC cells,and inhibited tumor growth and lung and liver metastasis, which indicated a novelrole of emodin in preventing the metastasis of TNBC.DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2018.3638 PMID: 29693154 