Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.17. Oncogene. 2018 Jul;37(29):4013-4032. doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0243-y. Epub 2018Apr 26.Contribution of three-dimensional architecture and tumor-associated fibroblaststo hepcidin regulation in breast cancer.Blanchette-Farra N(1), Kita D(2)(3), Konstorum A(4), Tesfay L(1), Lemler D(1)(5),Hegde P(6), Claffey KP(2), Torti FM(7), Torti SV(8).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, University of ConnecticutHealth Center, Farmington, CT, USA.(2)Department of Cell Biology, University of Connecticut Health Center,Farmington, CT, USA.(3)Alexion Pharmaceuticals, New Haven, CT, USA.(4)Center for Quantitative Medicine, University of Connecticut Health Center,Farmington, CT, USA.(5)Department of Molecular Biomedical Sciences, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA.(6)Department of Pathology, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, CT, USA.(7)Department of Medicine, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington,CT, USA.(8)Department of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, University of ConnecticutHealth Center, Farmington, CT, USA. storti@uchc.edu.Hepcidin is a peptide hormone that negatively regulates iron efflux and plays an important role in controlling the growth of breast tumors. In patients withbreast cancer, the combined expression of hepcidin and its membrane target,ferroportin, predict disease outcome. However, mechanisms that control hepcidinexpression in breast cancer cells remain largely unknown. Here, we usethree-dimensional breast cancer spheroids derived from cell lines and breastcancer patients to probe mechanisms of hepcidin regulation in breast cancer. Weobserve that the extent of hepcidin induction and pathways of its regulation are markedly changed in breast cancer cells grown in three dimensions. In monolayerculture, BMPs, particularly BMP6, regulate hepcidin transcription. When breastcancer cells are grown as spheroids, there is a >10-fold induction in hepcidintranscripts. Microarray analysis combined with knockdown experiments reveal that GDF-15 is the primary mediator of this change. The increase in hepcidin as breastcells develop a three-dimensional architecture increases intracellular iron, asindicated by an increase in the iron storage protein ferritin.Immunohistochemical staining of human breast tumors confirms that both GDF-15 andhepcidin are expressed in breast cancer specimens. Further, levels of GDF-15 are significantly correlated with levels of hepcidin at both the mRNA and proteinlevel in patient samples, consistent with a role for GDF-15 in control ofhepcidin in human breast tumors. Inclusion of tumor-associated fibroblasts inbreast cancer spheroids further induces hepcidin. This induction is mediated byfibroblast-dependent secretion of IL-6. Breast cancer cells grown as spheroidsare uniquely receptive to IL-6-dependent induction of hepcidin bytumor-associated fibroblasts, since IL-6 does not induce hepcidin in cells grown as monolayers. Collectively, our results suggest a new paradigm fortumor-mediated control of iron through the control of hepcidin by tumorarchitecture and the breast tumor microenvironment.DOI: 10.1038/s41388-018-0243-y PMCID: PMC6054540 [Available on 2018-10-26]PMID: 29695834 