93. Br J Surg. 2018 Apr 25. doi: 10.1002/bjs.10871. [Epub ahead of print]Gene expression profiles for a prognostic immunoscore in gastric cancer.Zeng D(1), Zhou R(1), Yu Y(2), Luo Y(1), Zhang J(1), Sun H(1), Bin J(3), LiaoY(3), Rao J(4), Zhang Y(5), Liao W(1).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.(2)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Malignant Tumour Epigenetics and GeneRegulation, Breast Tumour Centre, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-senUniversity, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.(3)Department of Cardiology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University,Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.(4)Key Laboratory of New Drug Screening of Guangdong Province, School ofPharmaceutical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong,China.(5)Key Laboratory of Zebrafish Modelling and Drug Screening for Human Diseases ofGuangdong Higher Education Institutes, Department of Developmental Biology,School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou,Guangdong, China.BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence has indicated an association between immuneinfiltration in gastric cancer and clinical outcome. However, reliable prognosticsignatures, based on systematic assessments of the immune landscape inferred frombulk tumour transcriptomes, have not been established. The aim was to develop an immune signature, based on the cellular composition of the immune infiltrateinferred from bulk tumour transcriptomes, to improve the prognostic predictionsof gastric cancer.METHODS: Twenty-two types of immune cell fraction were estimated based on largepublic gastric cancer cohorts from the Gene Expression Omnibus using CIBERSORT.An immunoscore based on the fraction of immune cell types was then constructedusing a least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regressionmodel.RESULTS: Using the LASSO model, an immunoscore was established consisting of 11types of immune cell fraction. In the training cohort (490 patients), significantdifferences were found between high- and low-immunoscore groups in overallsurvival across and within subpopulations with an identical TNM stage.Multivariable analysis revealed that the immunoscore was an independentprognostic factor (hazard ratio 1·92, 95 per cent c.i. 1·54 to 2·40). Theprognostic value of the immunoscore was also confirmed in the validation (210)and entire (700) cohorts.CONCLUSION: The proposed immunoscore represents a promising signature forestimating overall survival in patients with gastric cancer.© 2018 The Authors. BJS published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of BJSSociety Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/bjs.10871 PMID: 29691839 