188. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2018 May;141(5):633e-638e. doi:10.1097/PRS.0000000000004273.Validated Outcomes in the Grafting of Autologous Fat to the Breast: The VOGUEStudy. Development of a Core Outcome Set for Research and Audit.Agha RA(1), Pidgeon TE, Borrelli MR, Dowlut N, Orkar TK, Ahmed M, Pujji O, OrgillDP; VOGUE Group.Collaborators: Accorsi D, Agha R, Benito-Ruiz J, Chaput B, Boriani F, Brenelli F,Brown A, Brunnert K, Carrabin N, Caviggioli F, Claro F, Clough K, Dixon M, EderM, Falco G, Gabriel A, Gale KL, Gennari R, Di Giuseppe A, Guisantes E, GutowskiK, Hanson S, Khan LR, Khouri R, Lai LM, Lee C, Lee DW, Liu Y, Llull R, Malan T,Mestak O, Missana MC, Modarressi A, Naidu N, Noszczyk B, Orgill D, Piatkowski A, Rancati A, Rezek D, Riggio E, Rocco N, Rodrigo SP, Santanelli di Pompeo F,Sarfati I, Sbitany H, Sisti A, Skillman J, Sterodimas A, Thekkinkattil D, Tjalma W, Van La Parra R, Visconti G, Waked K, Weiler-Mithoff E, Withey S.Author information: (1)East Grinstead, Birmingham, London, Liverpool, and Nottingham, United Kingdom;and Boston, Mass. From the Department of Plastic Surgery, Queen Victoria HospitalNHS Foundation Trust; the Department of Plastic Surgery and Burns, BirminghamChildren's Hospital; the Department of Plastic Surgery, Guy's and St. Thomas' NHSFoundation Trust; Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry; theUniversity of Liverpool; the University of Nottingham; the College of Medical andDental Sciences, University of Birmingham; and the Division of Plastic Surgery,Brigham and Women's Hospital.BACKGROUND: Autologous fat grafting is an important part of the reconstructivesurgeon's toolbox when treating women affected by breast cancer and subsequenttumor extirpation. The debate over safety and efficacy of autologous fat graftingcontinues within the literature. However, work performed by the authors' grouphas shown significant heterogeneity in outcome reporting. Core outcome sets have been shown to reduce heterogeneity in outcome reporting. The authors' goal was todevelop a core outcome set for autologous fat grafting in breast reconstruction.METHODS: The authors published their protocol a priori. A Delphi consensusexercise among key stakeholders was conducted using a list of outcomes generated from their previous work. These outcomes were divided into six domains:oncologic, clinical, aesthetic and functional, patient-reported, process, andradiologic.RESULTS: In the first round, 55 of 78 participants (71 percent) completed theDelphi consensus exercise. Consensus was reached on nine of the 13 outcomes. The clarity of the results and lack of additional suggested outcomes deemed furtherrounds to be unnecessary.CONCLUSIONS: The VOGUE Study has led to the development of a much-needed coreoutcome set in the active research front and clinical area of autologous fatgrafting. The authors hope that clinicians will use this core outcome set toaudit their practice, and that researchers will implement these outcomes in theirstudy design and reporting of autologous fat grafting outcomes. The authorsencourage journals and surgical societies to endorse and encourage use of thiscore outcome set to help refine the scientific quality of the debate, thediscourse, and the literature.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V.DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000004273 PMID: 29697603 