40. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jun;73:388-399. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.04.016. Epub 2018 Apr 22.A polypeptide based podophyllotoxin conjugate for the treatment of multi drugresistant breast cancer with enhanced efficiency and minimal toxicity.Zhou H(1), Lv S(2), Zhang D(2), Deng M(3), Zhang X(4), Tang Z(5), Chen X(2).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Environmentally Friendly Chemistry and Applications ofMinistry of Education and Key Laboratory of Polymeric Materials & ApplicationTechnology of Hunan Province, Xiangtan University, Xiangtan 411105, PR China; KeyLaboratory of Polymer Ecomaterials, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry,Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022, PR China.(2)Key Laboratory of Polymer Ecomaterials, Changchun Institute of AppliedChemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022, PR China.(3)College of Chemistry, Northeast Normal University, Changchun 130024, PR China.(4)Key Laboratory of Environmentally Friendly Chemistry and Applications ofMinistry of Education and Key Laboratory of Polymeric Materials & ApplicationTechnology of Hunan Province, Xiangtan University, Xiangtan 411105, PR China.Electronic address: zxf7515@163.com.(5)Key Laboratory of Polymer Ecomaterials, Changchun Institute of AppliedChemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022, PR China. Electronicaddress: ztang@ciac.ac.cn.Podophyllotoxin (PPT) is a chemotherapeutic agent which has shown significantactivity against P-glycoprotein (P-gp) mediated multi drug resistant cancercells. However, because of the poor aqueous solubility and high toxicity, PPTcannot be used in clinical cancer therapy. In order to enhance the efficiency andreduce side effect of PPT, a polypeptide based PPT conjugate PLG-g-mPEG-PPT wasdeveloped and used for the treatment of multi drug resistant breast cancer. ThePLG-g-mPEG-PPT was prepared by conjugating PPT to poly(l-glutamic acid)-g-methoxypoly(ethylene glycol) (PLG-g-mPEG) via ester bonds. The PPT conjugatesself-assembled into nanoparticles with average sizes about 100 nm in aqueoussolution. Western blotting assay showed that the PLG-g-mPEG-PPT could effectivelyinhibit the expression of P-gp in the multiple drug resistant MCF-7/ADR cells. Invitro cytotoxicity assay indicated that the resistance index (RI) values ofPLG-g-mPEG-PPT on different drug-resistant cancer cell lines exhibited 57-270folds reduction than of traditional microtubule inhibitor chemotherapeutic drugPTX or DTX. Hemolysis assay demonstrated that the conjugation greatly decreasedthe hemolytic activity of free PPT. Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) ofPLG-g-mPEG-PPT increased greatly (13.3 folds) as compared to that of free PPT. Invivo study showed that the PLG-g-mPEG-PPT conjugate remarkably enhanced theantitumor efficacy against MCF-7/ADR xenograft tumors with a tumor suppressionrate (TSR) of 82.5%, displayed significantly improved anticancer efficacy ascompared to free PPT (TSR = 37.1%) with minimal toxicity when both of the twoformulations were used in MTD.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The development ofmultiple drug resistance (MDR) of cancer cells is the main cause of chemotherapy failure. The over-expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) has been recognized to bethe most important cause of MDR in cancer. Podophyllotoxin (PPT) is achemotherapeutic agent which has shown strong activity against P-gp mediatedmultidrug resistant cancer cells by simultaneously inhibiting the over-expressionof P-gp and the growth of cancer cells. However, PPT can not be used in clinical cancer treatment due to its poor aqueous solubility and high toxicity. Herein, wedeveloped a polypeptide based PPT conjugate PLG-g-mPEG-PPT by conjugating PPT to poly(l-glutamic acid)-g-methoxy poly(ethylene glycol). The PLG-g-mPEG-PPT showssignificantly decreased hemolytic activity, greatly improved maximum tolerateddose and remarkably enhanced antitumor efficacy against MCF-7/ADR xenografttumors as compared to free PPT.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.04.016 PMID: 29694920 