198. Nanoscale. 2018 May 10;10(18):8628-8641. doi: 10.1039/c7nr09083h.The comparative effect of wrapping solid gold nanoparticles and hollow goldnanoparticles with doxorubicin-loaded thermosensitive liposomes for cancerthermo-chemotherapy.Li Y (1), He D , Tu J , Wang R , Zu C , Chen Y , Yang W , Shi D , Webster TJ ,Shen Y .Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, China PharmaceuticalUniversity, 24 Tong Jia Xiang, Nanjing, China. shenyan@cpu.edu.cn.Since conventional chemotherapy is a systemic treatment that affects the bodyglobally and will not concentrate inside the tumor, it causes adverse sideeffects to patients. In this study, doxorubicin (DOX) together with solid goldnanoparticles (GNPs) or hollow gold nanoparticles (HGNPs), respectively, isloaded inside thermosensitive liposomes (GNPs&DOX-TLs and HGNPs&DOX-TLs), wherethe GNPs and HGNPs act as a "nanoswitch" for killing tumor cells directly byhyperthermia and triggering DOX release from TLs in the tumor quickly by nearinfrared laser (NIR) illumination. In addition, this study investigated thephotothermal transformation ability, NIR triggered drug release behavior, and theintracellular uptake and cytotoxicity of breast tumor cells and thethermo-chemotherapy mediated by the co-delivery of GNPs&DOX-TLs andHGNPs&DOX-TLs. GNPs and HGNPs had very different light-to-heat transductionefficiencies, while the hollow HGNPs had the advantage of NIR surface plasmontunability, resulting in the photothermal ablation of tumors with 800 nm lightpenetration in tissue. The prepared HGNPs&DOX-TLs exhibited a spherical shapewith a diameter of 190 nm and a ξ potential of -29 mV, which were steadilydispersed for at least one month. The co-encapsulated DOX was released underhyperthermia caused by NIR-responsive HGNPs and the local drug concentrationincreased along with the disintegration of the liposomal membrane. Thisco-delivery of HGNPs&DOX-TLs produced a synergistic cytotoxicity response,thereby enhancing anticancer efficacy 8-fold and increasing the survival timecompared to GNPs&DOX-TLs. This work suggested that the co-delivery ofHGNPs&DOX-TLs followed by burst-release of DOX using NIR-responsive HGNPssensitized cancer cells to the chemotherapeutic compound, which provided a novel concept for the combination strategy of chemotherapy and photothermal therapy.These results suggest that the markedly improved therapeutic efficacy anddecreased systemic toxicity of the NPs presented in this study hold significantpotential for future cancer treatment.DOI: 10.1039/c7nr09083h PMID: 29697100 