42. Med Phys. 2018 Jul;45(7):3052-3062. doi: 10.1002/mp.12935. Epub 2018 May 16.Recurrence quantification analysis of radiologists' scanpaths when interpretingmammograms.Gandomkar Z(1), Tay K(2), Brennan PC(1), Mello-Thoms C(1)(3).Author information: (1)Image Optimisation and Perception Group (MIOPeG), Discipline of MedicalImaging and Radiation Sciences, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.(2)Medical Imaging Department, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, NSW,Australia.(3)Department of Biomedical Informatics, School of Medicine, The University ofPittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to Propose a classifier based onrecurrence quantification analysis (RQA) metrics for distinguishing experts'scanpaths from those of less-experienced readers and to explore the associationof spatiotemporal dynamics of the mammographic scanpaths with the characteristicsof cases and radiologists using RQA metrics.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eye movements were recorded from eight radiologists (twocohorts: four experienced and four less-experienced) while reading 120 mammograms(59 cancer, 61 normal). Ten RQA measures were extracted for each recordedscanpath. The measures described the temporal distribution of recurrent fixationsas well as laminar and deterministic eye movements. Recurrent fixations arefixations that are located close to a previously fixated point in a scanpath.Deterministic eye movements represent looking back and forth between twolocations, while laminar eye movements indicate detailed scanning of an area withconsecutive fixations. The RQA metrics along with six conventional eye-trackingparameters were used to construct a classifier for distinguishing experts'scanpaths from those of less-experienced readers. Leave-one-out cross validation was used for evaluating the classifier. For each reader cohort, the ANOVAanalysis was done to study the relationship of RQA measures with breast density, case pathology, readers' expertise, and readers' decisions on the case. Theproportions of laminar and deterministic movements involved fixations in thelocation of lesions were also compared for two reader cohorts using twoproportion z-tests.RESULTS: All RQA measures differed significantly between scanpaths of experiencedreaders and those of less-experienced readers. The classifier achieved an areaunder the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.89 (0.87-0.91) fordetecting experts' scanpaths. Proportionately more refixations and laminar anddeterministic sequences were in the location of the lesion for the experiencedcohort compared to the less-experienced cohort (all P-values < 0.001). Eight and four RQA measures differed between normal and cancer cases for the experiencedand less experienced readers, respectively. None of metrics differed betweenfatty and dense breasts for the less experienced readers, while two measuresresulted into a significant difference for the experienced readers. For experts, six measures differed significantly between true negatives and false positivesand nine were significantly different between true positives and false negatives.For the less-experienced cohort, the corresponding figures were seven and onemeasures, respectively.CONCLUSION: The RQA measures can quantify the differences among experienced andless experienced radiologists. They also capture differences among experts'scanpaths related to case pathology and radiologists' decisions on the case.© 2018 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mp.12935 PMID: 29694675 