Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.163. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2018;46(4):1737-1747. doi: 10.1159/000489249. Epub 2018 Apr23.HOXD3 Plays a Critical Role in Breast Cancer Stemness and Drug Resistance.Zhang Y(1), Zhang Q(1), Cao Z(1), Huang Y(2), Cheng S(2), Pang D(2).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital,Harbin, China.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital,Harbin, China.BACKGROUND/AIMS: Homeobox D3 (HOXD3) is a member of the homeobox family of genes that is known primarily for its transcriptional regulation of morphogenesis inall multicellular organisms. In this study, we sought to explore the role thatHOXD3 plays in the stem-like capacity, or stemness, and drug resistance of breastcancer cells.METHODS: Expression of HOXD3 in clinical breast samples were examined by RT-PCRand immunohistochemistry. HOXD3 expression in breast cancer cell lines wereanalyzed by RT-PCR and western blot. Ability of drug resistance in breast cancer cells were elevated by MTT cell viability and colony formation assays. Weexamined stemness using cell fluorescent staining, RT-PCR and western blot forstem cell marker expression. Finally, activity of wnt signaling was analyzed byFOPflash luciferase assays. RT-PCR and western blot were performed for downstreamgenes of wnt signaling.RESULTS: We demonstrated that HOXD3 is overexpressed in breast cancer tissue ascompared to normal breast tissue. HOXD3 overexpression enhances breast cancercell drug resistance. Furthermore, HOXD3 upregulation in the same cell linesincreased sphere formation as well as the expression levels of stem cellbiomarkers, suggesting that HOXD3 does indeed increase breast cancer cellstemness. Because we had previously shown that HOXD3 expression is closelyassociated with integrin β3 expression in breast cancer patients, we hypothesizedthat HOXD3 may regulate breast cancer cell stemness and drug resistance throughintegrin β 3. Cell viability assays showed that integrin β 3 knockdown increased cell viability and that HOXD3 could not restore cancer cell stemness or drugresistance. Given integrin β 3's relationship with Wnt/β-catenin signaling, wedetermine whether HOXD3 regulates integrin β 3 activity through Wnt/β-cateninsignaling. We found that, even though HOXD3 increased the expression ofWnt/β-catenin downstream genes, it did not restore Wnt/β-catenin signalingactivity, which was inhibited in integrin β3 knockdown breast cancer cells.CONCLUSION: We demonstrate that HOXD3 plays a critical role in breast cancerstemness and drug resistance via integrin β3-mediated Wnt/β-catenin signaling.Our findings open the possibility for improving the current standard of care for breast cancer patients by designing targeted molecular therapies that overcomethe barriers of cancer cell stemness and drug resistance.© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.DOI: 10.1159/000489249 PMID: 29698974  [Indexed for MEDLINE]