104. Comput Med Imaging Graph. 2018 Apr 3. pii: S0895-6111(18)30185-X. doi:10.1016/j.compmedimag.2018.04.001. [Epub ahead of print]A computer-aided detection of the architectural distortion in digital mammograms using the fractal dimension measurements of BEMD.Zyout I(1), Togneri R(2).Author information: (1)Communications, Electronics and Computer Engineering Department, TafilaTechnical University, Tafila 66110, Jordan. Electronic address:izyout@ttu.edu.jo.(2)School of Electrical, Electronic and Computer Engineering, The University ofWestern Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawely, WA 6009, Australia. Electronicaddress: roberto.togneri@uwa.edu.au.Achieving a high performance for the detection and characterization ofarchitectural distortion in screening mammograms is important for an efficientbreast cancer early detection. Viewing a mammogram image as a rough surface that can be described using the fractal theory is a well-recognized approach. Thispaper presents a new fractal-based computer-aided detection (CAD) algorithm forcharacterizing various breast tissues in screening mammograms with a particularfocus on distinguishing between architectural distortion and normal breastparenchyma. The proposed approach is based on two underlying assumptions: (i)monitoring the variation pattern of fractal dimension, with the changes of theimage resolution, is a useful tool to distinguish textural patterns of breasttissue, (ii) the bidimensional empirical mode decomposition (BEMD) algorithmappropriately generates a multiresolution representation of the mammogram. Theproposed CAD has been tested using different validation datasets of mammographic regions of interest (ROIs) extracted from the Digital Database for ScreeningMammography (DDSM) database. The validation ROI datasets contain architecturaldistortion (AD), normal breast tissue, and AD surrounding tissue. The highestclassification performance, in terms of area under the receiver operatingcharacteristic curve, of Az = 0.95 was achieved when the proposed approachapplied to distinguish 187 architectural distortion depicting regions from 2191normal breast parenchyma regions. The obtained results validate the underlyinghypothesis and demonstrate that effectiveness of capturing the variation of thefractal dimension measurements within an appropriate multiscale representation ofthe digital mammogram. Results also reveal that this tool has the potential ofprescreening other key and common mammographic signs of early breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.compmedimag.2018.04.001 PMID: 29691123 