190. Georgian Med News. 2018 Mar;(276):107-112.LINE-1 METHYLATION IN BLOOD AND TISSUES OF PATIENTS WITH BREAST CANCER.Kankava K(1), Kvaratskhelia E(1), Burkadze G(1), Kokhreidze I(1), Gogokhia N(1), Abzianidze E(1).Author information: (1)Tbilisi State Medical University, Department of Molecular and MedicalGenetics; Department of Molecular Pathology; The First University Clinic;Department of Laboratory Medicine, Georgia.Methylation is an epigenetic alteration proved to be involved in many diseaseprocesses including cancer. This change affects mainly gene promoters andrepetitive sequences in genome. Long Interspersed Nuclear Element-1 (LINE-1) is afamily of retrotransposons - repetitive elements that modify gene activity andcan themselves be targeted by epigenetic mechanisms. LINE-1 methylation level is a surrogate marker for global methylation. In many conditions this parameter isfound to be altered not only in affected cell groups, but also throughout othertissues. The aim of our study was to compare LINE-1 methylation pattern in DNAextracted from blood of the patients with benign and malignant breast tissue. In addition, we investigated correlation of LINE-1 methylation in blood and tissues of same patients and relationship of all variables with histopathologic andphenotypic characteristics of tumors. Patients with biopsy-proved ductal invasivecarcinoma of breast and no preoperative chemo/radiotherapy were chosen for thestudy group. Another pool of patients with various benign breast lesionsrepresented controls. Blood samples from both group members were collectedpreoperatively. Tumor tissue sections were processed for pathology report andpart of remaining tissue was used for methylation study. LINE-1 methylation levelwas quantified using ELISA-based assay. It was analyzed in combination withhistologic and phenotypic tumor parameters and compared between different tissuesand different study groups. LINE-1 was found to be significantly hypomethylatedin breast cancer tissue compared to blood. Blood samples of patients withmalignant tumors showed slightly lower methylation level, than samples obtainedfrom control group members. Lymphovascular invasion was the onlyaggressiveness-determining factor that was found to be at least weakly correlatedwith LINE-1 hypomethylation in blood. We can conclude, that globalhypomethylation measured by LINE-1 methylation level is significant in tumortissue. But there is no significant difference between LINE-1 methylation levels in blood of patients with benign and malignant breast tumors; therefor LINE-1hypomethylation in blood cannot be used as a marker for early tumor detection.Neither is it valid for determination of tumor behavior.PMID: 29697392 