101. Drug Metab Dispos. 2018 Jul;46(7):970-979. doi: 10.1124/dmd.118.080804. Epub 2018Apr 24.Disposition of Mianserin and Cyclizine in UGT2B10-Overexpressing Human Embryonic Kidney 293 Cells: Identification of UGT2B10 as a Novel N-Glucosidation Enzyme andBreast Cancer Resistance Protein as an N-Glucoside Transporter.Lu D(1), Dong D(1), Xie Q(1), Li Z(1), Wu B(2).Author information: (1)Research Center for Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, College of Pharmacy(D.L., Q.X., B.W.), Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of PharmacodynamicConstituents of TCM and New Drugs Research (D.L., B.W.), and International OcularSurface Research Centre and Institute of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine (D.D.,Z.L.), Jinan University, Guangzhou, China; and Shenzhen Key Laboratory forMolecular Biology of Neural Development, Shenzhen Institutes of AdvancedTechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China (D.L.).(2)Research Center for Biopharmaceutics and Pharmacokinetics, College of Pharmacy(D.L., Q.X., B.W.), Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of PharmacodynamicConstituents of TCM and New Drugs Research (D.L., B.W.), and International OcularSurface Research Centre and Institute of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine (D.D.,Z.L.), Jinan University, Guangzhou, China; and Shenzhen Key Laboratory forMolecular Biology of Neural Development, Shenzhen Institutes of AdvancedTechnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, China (D.L.)bj.wu@hotmail.com.UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGTs) play an important role in the metabolism and detoxification of amine-containing chemicals; however, the disposition mechanismsfor amines via UGT metabolism are not fully clear. We aimed to investigate apotential role of UGT2B10 in N-glucosidation and to determine the transportersfor the excretion of N-glucosides. We first established a human embryonic kidney cell line 293 (HEK293) that stably overexpressed UGT2B10. Incubation of mianserinor cyclizine with the cells generated one N-glucuronide and one N-glucoside.Chemical inhibition (using specific chemical inhibitor Ko143) and biologicinhibition [using specific short hairpin RNA of breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP)] resulted in a significant reduction in efflux of N-glucuronide. Similarresults were observed when multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP4) wasinhibited. Furthermore, inhibition of BCRP led to increased intracellularN-glucoside, whereas inhibition of MRP4 caused no changes in disposition ofN-glucoside. Overall, the data indicated that BCRP, not MRP4, was responsible forthe excretion of N-glucosides, whereas both BCRP and MRP4 contributed toexcretion of N-glucuronides. Interestingly, downregulation of N-glucuronidationled to increased N-glucosidation in the cells, supporting the glucosidation as a potential complementary pathway for conventional glucuronidation. In conclusion, UGT2B10 was for the first time identified as an N-glucosidation enzyme. GeneratedN-glucosides were excreted primarily by the BCRP transporter.Copyright © 2018 by The American Society for Pharmacology and ExperimentalTherapeutics.DOI: 10.1124/dmd.118.080804 PMID: 29691239 