173. Toxicol In Vitro. 2018 Sep;51:74-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tiv.2018.04.010. Epub 2018Apr 24.Ovatodiolide suppresses yes-associated protein 1-modulated cancer stem cellphenotypes in highly malignant hepatocellular carcinoma and sensitizes cancercells to chemotherapy in vitro.Chang HL(1), Chen HA(2), Bamodu OA(3), Lee KF(4), Tzeng YM(5), Lee WH(6), TsaiJT(7).Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, En Chu Kong Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan.(2)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei MedicalUniversity, Taipei, Taiwan; Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery,Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan; Divisionof General Surgery, Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, College ofMedicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.(3)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Cancer Center, Taipei MedicalUniversity - Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan; Department of MedicalResearch & Education, Taipei Medical University - Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan.(4)Biobank management center, Tri-Service General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.(5)Center for General Education, National Taitung University, Taitung, Taiwan;Department of Applied Chemistry, Chaoyang University of Technology, Taichung,Taiwan.(6)Department of Pathology, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, NewTaipei City, Taiwan; Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, College ofMedicine, Taipei Mediacal University, Taipei City, Taiwan. Electronic address:whl95816@tmu.edu.tw.(7)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei MedicalUniversity, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of RadiationOncology, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan. Electronic address: 10576@s.tmu.edu.tw.The cancer stem cells (CSCs) theory recently became a focus of heightenedattention in cancer biology, with the proposition that CSCs may constitute animportant therapeutic target for effective anticancer therapy, because of theirdemonstrated role in tumor initiation, chemo-, and radio-resistance. Liver CSCsare a small subpopulation of poorly- or undifferentiated liver tumor cells,implicated in tumorigenesis, metastasis, resistance to therapy and diseaserelapse, enriched with and associated with the functional markers correspondingto the CSCs-enriched side population (SP), high aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH)activity, and enhanced formation of in vitro liver CSCs models, referred toherein as hepatospheres. In this study, we found YAP1 was significantly expressedin the SP cells, as well as in generated hepatospheres compared to non-SP orparental HCC cells, at transcript and/or protein levels. In addition,downregulation of YAP1 expression levels by small molecule inhibitor and siRNAtransfection, in the HCC cell lines, PLC/PRF/5 and Mahlavu, were associated with marked loss of ability to form hepatospheres and increased sensitivity tosorafenib. Consistent with the above, we demonstrated that YAP1 expressionpositively correlated with that of Sox2, Oct4, c-Myc and GRP78, markers ofstemness and drug resistance. This is suggestive of YAP1's role as a modulator ofcancer stemness, ER stress and chemoresistance. For the first time, wedemonstrate that Ovatodiolide significantly attenuates YAP1 expression andsubsequently suppressed YAP1-modulated CSCs phenotypes and associated diseaseprogression, consistent with our previous finding in breast cancer. Takentogether, our findings suggest that YAP1, highly expressed in malignant livertumours, contributes to hepatocellular CSCs phenotype and is a molecular targetof interest for CSCs targeted therapy in liver cancer patients.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.tiv.2018.04.010 PMID: 29698666 