105. Radiother Oncol. 2018 Apr 21. pii: S0167-8140(18)30197-X. doi:10.1016/j.radonc.2018.04.009. [Epub ahead of print]ESTRO-ACROP guideline: Interstitial multi-catheter breast brachytherapy asAccelerated Partial Breast Irradiation alone or as boost - GEC-ESTRO BreastCancer Working Group practical recommendations.Strnad V(1), Major T(2), Polgar C(3), Lotter M(4), Guinot JL(3),Gutierrez-Miguelez C(5), Galalae R(6), Van Limbergen E(7), Guix B(8), NiehoffP(9), Lössl K(10), Hannoun-Levi JM(11).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Erlangen, Germany.Electronic address: vratislav.strnad@uk-erlangen.de.(2)Center of Radiotherapy, National Institute of Oncology Budapest, Hungary.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fundación Instituto Valenciano de Oncología,Valencia, Spain.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Erlangen, Germany.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Catalan Institute of Oncology Barcelona,Spain.(6)Department of Radiation Therapy, Evangelische Kliniken, Gelsenkirchen,Germany.(7)Department of Radiotherapy, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.(8)IMOR Foundation, Medical Institute for Radiotherapy and Oncology, Barcelona,Spain.(9)Department of Radiation Therapy, Sana Hospital Offenbach, Germany.(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Bern, Inselspital,Switzerland.(11)Department of Radiation Oncology, Centre Antoine Lacassagne, Nice, France.PURPOSE: This consensus statement from the Breast Cancer Working Group of Groupe Européen de Curiethérapie of European Society for Radiotherapy and Oncology(GEC-ESTRO) aims at generating practical guidelines for multi-catheterimage-guided brachytherapy in the conservative management of breast cancerpatients used for either Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation (APBI) or for abreast boost.METHODS: Recent advances in techniques of multi-catheter brachytherapy weresummarized and all the relevant literature was reviewed by a panel of experts.Panel members of the GEC-ESTRO experts participated in a series of conferences,supplemented their clinical experience, were surveyed to determine their current practices and patterns, performed a literature review, and formulatedrecommendations for implementing APBI with multi-catheter brachytherapy, focusingon treatment planning issues, catheter insertion, dosimetry and qualityassurance. This document was reviewed and approved by the full panel, theGEC-ESTRO executive board and by the ACROP (Advisory Committee on RadiationOncology Practice).RESULTS: Three-dimensional (3D) treatment planning, catheter insertiontechniques, dosimetry and methods of quality assurance for APBI and boost withmulti-catheter image-guided brachytherapy after breast conserving surgery aredescribed. Detailed recommendations for daily practice including dose constraintsare given.CONCLUSIONS: Recent standards and guidelines for the use of APBI with differentmulti-catheter image-guided brachytherapy techniques have been defined. Differenttechniques are used to insert the catheters. Guidelines are mandatory to assureprecise catheter insertion for coverage of the target volume and to guaranteehigh-quality dosimetry. The same rules apply for brachytherapy based boostirradiation for breast cancer after whole breast irradiation as well as forpartial breast re-irradiation.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2018.04.009 PMID: 29691075 