164. Breast. 2018 Aug;40:76-81. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.04.015. Epub 2018 May 22.Identifying pathologic complete response of the breast after neoadjuvant systemictherapy with ultrasound guided biopsy to eventually omit surgery: Study designand feasibility of the MICRA trial (Minimally Invasive Complete ResponseAssessment).van der Noordaa MEM(1), van Duijnhoven FH(1), Loo CE(2), van Werkhoven E(3), van de Vijver KK(4), Wiersma T(5), Winter-Warnars HAO(2), Sonke GS(6), VranckenPeeters MTFD(7).Author information: (1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni vanLeeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(2)Department of Radiology, Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni vanLeeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(3)Department of Medical Statistics, Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni vanLeeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(4)Department of Pathology, Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni vanLeeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Department of Pathology, GhentUniversity Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni vanLeeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni vanLeeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(7)Department of Surgical Oncology, Netherlands Cancer Institute - Antoni vanLeeuwenhoek, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: m.vrancken@nki.nl.PURPOSE: Improvements in neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST) for breast cancerpatients have led to increasing rates of pathologic complete response (pCR). The MICRA trial (NTR6120) aims at identifying pCR with post-NST biopsies. Here, wereport the study design and feasibility.METHODS: The MICRA-trial is a multi-center prospective cohort study. Patientswith a pre-NST placed marker and radiologic complete (rCR) or partial response onMRI after NST are eligible for inclusion. Ultrasound guided biopsy of theoriginal tumor area is performed. Pathology results of the biopsies and surgeryspecimens are compared. The primary endpoint is false-negative rate of biopsiesin identifying pCR.RESULTS: During the first year of the trial 58 patients with rCR were included.One patient was a screening failure and excluded for analysis. Twenty-one percenthad hormone receptor (HR)+/HER2- tumors, 21% HR+/HER2+ tumors, 18% HR-/HER2+tumors and 40% TN tumors. Overall pCR was 68%. In seven patients biopsies couldnot be obtained: in 6 patients, the marker could not be identified on ultrasound in the OR and in 1 patient there were technical difficulties. A median of eightbiopsies was obtained (range 4-9). The median of histopathological representativebiopsies was 4 (range 1-8).CONCLUSION: Ultrasound guided biopsy of the breast in patients with excellentresponse on MRI after NST is feasible. Accuracy results of the MICRA trial willbe presented after inclusion of 525 patients to determine if ultrasound guidedbiopsy is an accurate alternative to surgical resection for assessment of pCRafter NST.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.04.015 PMID: 29698928 