87. Indian J Radiol Imaging. 2018 Jan-Mar;28(1):115-122. doi:10.4103/ijri.IJRI_107_17.Comparing the diagnostic efficacy of full field digital mammography with digital breast tomosynthesis using BIRADS score in a tertiary cancer care hospital.Singla D(1), Chaturvedi AK(2), Aggarwal A(3), Rao SA(2), Hazarika D(2), MahawarV(2).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Hospital, Rohini, India.(2)Department of Radiology, Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Centre,Rohini, New Delhi, India.(3)Department of Radiology, City X-Ray and Scan Clinic, Dwarka, India.Introduction: Breast cancer is one of the leading cancers in females worldwide,and its incidence has been rising at an exponential pace in the last 10 yearseven in India. Mammography has been the mainstay for detection of breast cancerover decades and has gradually advanced from screen film to full-field digitalmammography. Recently, tomosynthesis has evolved as an advanced imaginginvestigation for early diagnosis of breast lesions in both diagnostic andscreening settings.Aim of Study: To compare and evaluate the impact of digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) compared to full-field digital mammography (FFDM) in the interpretation of BIRADS score in both diagnostic and screening settings.Settings and Design: A 1-year prospective longitudinal study was conducted in theDepartment of Radio-diagnosis in our institute using Hologic Selenia Dimensionsfor mammography as well as tomosynthesis.Materials and Methods: One hundred women known or suspected (opportunisticscreening) for breast cancer were evaluated either with FFDM alone or both FFDMand DBT. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictivevalue, and P value were used to assess the various diagnostic criteria in ourstudy.Results: Addition of DBT to FFDM results in a statistically significant increase in the sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value, and astatistically significant decrease in the false positive rates. Similar resultswere noted in both diagnostic and screening cases. It was observed that, in most cases, i.e. a total of 47, DBT did not change the BIRADS scoring; however, itsaddition increased the diagnostic confidence. BIRADS was upgraded and downgraded in 14 and 31 cases, respectively, with the addition of DBT to FFDM. New lesionswere seen with addition of DBT to FFDM in 8 cases.Conclusion: Addition of DBT to FFDM results in increase in sensitivity,specificity, positive predictive value, and a statistically significant decrease in false positive rates in both diagnostic and screening cases. As addition oftomosynthesis results in a significant decrease in recall rate, it should beadded, at least, in all screening mammography programs.DOI: 10.4103/ijri.IJRI_107_17 PMCID: PMC5894307PMID: 29692539 