Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.140. Oncologist. 2018 Apr 26. pii: theoncologist.2017-0379. doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0379. [Epub ahead of print]Genomic Profiling of HER2-Positive Gastric Cancer: PI3K/Akt/mTOR Pathway asPredictor of Outcomes in HER2-Positive Advanced Gastric Cancer Treated withTrastuzumab.Díaz-Serrano A(1), Angulo B(2), Dominguez C(2), Pazo-Cid R(3), Salud A(4),Jiménez-Fonseca P(5), Leon A(6), Galan MC(7), Alsina M(8), Rivera F(9), PlazaJC(2), Paz-Ares L(10), Lopez-Rios F(2), Gómez-Martín C(1).Author information: (1)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid,Spain cgomezm@seom.org asundiazserrano@gmail.com.(2)Laboratorio Dianas Terapeuticas. Centro Integral Oncologico Clara Campal,Hospital Universitario HM Sanchinarro, Madrid, Spain.(3)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario Miguel Servet, Zaragoza,Spain.(4)Medical Oncology Unit, Hospital Universitario Arnau de Vilanova, Lérida,Spain.(5)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias,Oviedo, Spain.(6)Medical Oncology Unit, Fundación Jimenez Diaz, Madrid, Spain.(7)Medical Oncology Department, Institut Català d'Oncologia, L'Hospitalet deLlobregat, Barcelona, Spain.(8)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebrón, Barcelona,Spain.(9)Medical Oncology Deparment, Hospital Universitario Marques de Valdecilla,Santander, Spain.(10)Medical Oncology Department, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid,Spain.BACKGROUND: HER2-positive gastric cancer (GC) affects 7%-34% of patients with GC.Trastuzumab-based first-line treatment has become the standard of care forHER2-positive advanced gastric cancer (AGC). However, there are no clinicallyvalidated biomarkers for resistance to HER2-targeted therapies. Upregulation ofPI3K pathway and tyrosine kinase receptor (TKR) alterations have been noted asmolecular mechanisms of resistance in breast cancer. Our study aimed to perform amolecular characterization of HER2-positive AGC and investigate the role ofPI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway activation and TKR gene copy number (GCN) gainsas predictive biomarkers in HER2-positive AGC treated with trastuzumab.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-two HER2-positive GC samples from patients treatedwith trastuzumab-based first-line chemotherapy were selected. DNA samples weresequenced. PTEN and MET immunohistochemistry were also performed.RESULTS: Concurrent genetic alterations were detected in 97.1% of HER2-positiveAGC. We found activation of PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway in 52.4% of patients and TKRGCN gains in 38.1%. TKR GCN gains did not correlate with overall survival (OS) orprogression-free survival (PFS). Multivariate Cox models showed thatPI3K/Akt/mTOR activation negatively affects the effectiveness oftrastuzumab-based chemotherapy in terms of OS and PFS.CONCLUSION: Our results provide for the first time a detailed molecular profileof concurrent genetic alterations in HER2-positive AGC. PI3K pathway activationcould be used as a predictive marker of worse outcome in this patient population.In addition, gains in copy number of other TKR genes in this subgroup may alsoinfluence the survival benefit obtained with trastuzumab.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: This article reports, for the first time, a detailedmolecular profile of genomic alterations in patients with HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer (AGC). PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway activation seems to have a differentially negative effect on overall survival and progression-free survival in AGC treated with trastuzumab-based chemotherapy. Combining different targeted agents could be a successful therapeutic strategy to improve the prognosis ofHER2-positive AGC.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0379 PMID: 29700210 