70. Psychiatr Pol. 2018 Feb 28;52(1):129-141. doi: 10.12740/PP/OnlineFirst/44732.Epub 2018 Feb 28.Patient mental adjustment to selected types of cancer.[Article in English, Polish]Religioni U(1), Czerw A(1), Deptała A(2).Author information: (1)Zakład Zdrowia Publicznego WUM.(2)Zakład Profilaktyki Onkologicznej WUM.OBJECTIVES: Physical symptoms related to cancer are associated with variousmental conditions. An adopted attitude towards pain and disease affects thequality of life of patients and may even decide about the final outcome oftherapy. The objective of the study was to assess the degree of mental adjustmentof patients diagnosed with breast, lung, colorectal and prostate cancer. Theanalysis also covered the effect of socioeconomic factors on mental adjustment inpatients in the above groups.METHODS: The study included 902 patients treated on an outpatient basis at theCenter of Oncology, the Maria Skłodowska-Curie Institute in Warsaw, in the year2013. The study participants were patients diagnosed with breast, lung,colorectal and prostate carcinoma. The Paper and Pencil Interview (PAPI)technique was applied. The questionnaire interview included demographic-typequestions (socioeconomic variables) and the Mini-Mental Adjustment to Cancer(mini-MAC) scale, which measures the degree of mental adjustment to disease.RESULTS: The highest scores in the anxious preoccupation andhelplessness-hopelessness subclasses were those of the lung, colorectal, breastand prostate cancer patients. In breast and lung cancer study participants,differences between individual categories distinguished due to socioeconomicfeatures proved statistically insignificant. However, significant dependencieswere observed between mental adjustment to disease and chemotherapy in the pastyear; though, the results differ with respect to the primary site.CONCLUSIONS: The primary site affects patient adjustment to disease.Socioeconomic factors in the area of mental adaptation differentiate colorectalcarcinoma patients.DOI: 10.12740/PP/OnlineFirst/44732 PMID: 29704420 