12. Cancer Cell Microenviron. 2018;5(1). pii: e1630. doi: 10.14800/ccm.1630. Epub2018 Apr 9.Scaling up to study brca2: the zeppelin zebrafish mutant reveals a role for brca2in embryonic development of kidney mesoderm.Drummond BE(1), Wingert RA(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biological Sciences, Center for Stem Cells and RegenerativeMedicine, Center for Zebrafish Research, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,IN, 46556, USA.Specialized renal epithelial cells known as podocytes are essential components ofthe filtering structures within the kidney that coordinate the process ofremoving waste from the bloodstream. Podocyte loss initiates many human kidneydiseases as it triggers subsequent damage to the kidney, leading to progressiveloss of function that culminates with end stage renal failure. Podocytemorphology, function and gene expression profiles are well conserved betweenzebrafish and humans, making the former a relevant model to study podocytedevelopment and model kidney diseases. Recently, we reported that whole genomesequencing of the zeppelin (zep) zebrafish mutant, which exhibits podocyteabrogation, revealed that the causative lesion for this defect was a splicingmutation in the breast cancer 2, early onset (brca2) gene. This was a surprising and novel discovery, as previous research on brca2/BRCA2 in a number ofvertebrate animal models had not implicated an explicit role for this gene inkidney mesoderm development. Interestingly, the abrogation of the podocytelineage in zep mutants was also accompanied by the formation of a largerinterrenal (IR) gland, which is analogous to the adrenal gland in mammals, andsuggested a fate switch between the renal and inter renal mesodermal derivatives.Mirroring these findings, knockdown of brca2 also recapitulated the loss ofpodocytes and increased IR population. In addition, brca2 overexpression wassufficient to partially rescue podocytes in zep mutants, and induced ectopicpodocyte formation in wild-type embryos. Interestingly, immunofluorescencestudies indicated that zep mutants had elevated P-h2A.X levels, suggesting thatDNA repair is dysfunctional in these animals and contributes to the zepphenotype. Moving forward, this unique zebrafish mutant provides a new model tofurther explore how brca2 contributes to the development of tissues including thekidney mesoderm-roles which may have implications for renal diseases as well.DOI: 10.14800/ccm.1630 PMCID: PMC5922780PMID: 29707605 