179. Biol Pharm Bull. 2018;41(5):713-721. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b17-00898.Induction of Apoptosis by Citrus unshiu Peel in Human Breast Cancer MCF-7 Cells: Involvement of ROS-Dependent Activation of AMPK.Kim MY(1)(2), Bo HH(1)(2), Choi EO(1)(2), Kwon DH(1)(2), Kim HJ(1)(2), AhnKI(1)(2), Ji SY(1)(2), Jeong JW(1)(2), Park SH(3), Hong SH(1)(2), Kim GY(4), ParkC(5), Kim HS(6), Moon SK(7), Yun SJ(8), Kim WJ(8), Choi YH(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, Dongeui University College of Korean Medicine.(2)Anti-Aging Research Center, Dongeui University.(3)Department of Pathology, Dongeui University College of Korean Medicine.(4)Laboratory of Immunobiology, Department of Marine Life Sciences, Jeju NationalUniversity.(5)Department of Molecular Biology, College of Natural Sciences, DongeuiUniversity.(6)Department of Biological Sciences, College of Natural Sciences, Pusan NationalUniversity.(7)Department of Food and Nutrition, College of Biotechnology & Natural Resource,Chung-Ang University.(8)Personalized Tumor Engineering Research Center, Department of Urology,Chungbuk National University College of Medicine.The fruit of Citrus unshiu MARKOVICH used for various purposes in traditionalmedicine has various pharmacological properties including antioxidant,anti-inflammatory, and antibacterial effects. Recently, the possibility ofanti-cancer activity of the extracts or components of this fruit has beenreported; however, the exact mechanism has not yet been fully understood. In thisstudy, we evaluated the anti-proliferative effect of water extract of C. unshiupeel (WECU) on human breast cancer MCF-7 cells and investigated the underlyingmechanism. Our results showed that reduction of MCF-7 cell survival by WECU wasassociated with the induction of apoptosis. WECU-induced apoptotic cell death wasrelated to the activation of caspase-8 and -9, representative initiate caspasesof extrinsic and intrinsic apoptosis pathways, respectively, and increase in the Bax : Bcl-2 ratio accompanied by cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). WECU also increased the mitochondrial dysfunction and cytosolic release ofcytochrome c. In addition, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and its downstreamtarget molecule, acetyl-CoA carboxylase, were activated in aconcentration-dependent manner in WECU-treated cells. In contrast, compound C, anAMPK inhibitor, significantly inhibited WECU-induced apoptosis, while inhibiting increased expression of Bax and decreased expression of Bcl-2 by WECU andinhibition of WECU-induced PARP degradation. Furthermore, WECU provoked theproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS); however, the activation of AMKP and apoptosis by WECU were prevented, when the ROS production was blocked byantioxidant N-acetyl cysteine. Therefore, our data indicate that WECU suppresses MCF-7 cell proliferation by activating the intrinsic and extrinsic apoptosispathways through ROS-dependent AMPK pathway activation.DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b17-00898 PMID: 29709909 