Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.39. J Integr Med. 2018 Jul;16(4):273-282. doi: 10.1016/j.joim.2018.04.005. Epub 2018 Apr 18.Evaluation of phenolic composition, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anticanceractivities of Polygonatum verticillatum (L.).Kumar Singh S(1), Patra A(2).Author information: (1)Institute of Pharmacy, Guru Ghasidas University, Bilaspur 495009, India.(2)Institute of Pharmacy, Guru Ghasidas University, Bilaspur 495009, India.Electronic address: drarjunpatra22@gmail.com.OBJECTIVE: Polygonatum verticillatum (L.) All. (Ruscaceae), one of the Ashtawargaplants, is widely used for treatment of various ailments. The present study wasundertaken to determine the phenolic composition, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anticancer activities of several extracts (petroleum ether, dichloromethane, chloroform, ethanol, and aqueous) from the rhizomes of the plant.METHODS: Coarsely powdered dry rhizome was successively extracted with different solvents of increasing polarity (petroleum ether, dichloromethane, chloroform,ethanol and water). The phenolic compositions, in terms of total phenolic content(TPC), total flavonoid content (TFC) and total condensed tannin content (TTC),were evaluated with the Folin-Ciocalteu assay, aluminum chloride colorimetricassay and vanillin spectrophotometric assay, respectively. Total antioxidantcapacity, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl and2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) assays were used to assessthe antioxidant potential of each extract. A protein denaturation model and3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay were used toevaluate in vitro anti-inflammatory and anticancer activities, respectively. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS) analysis was carried out to demonstrate various phytoconstituents in each extract. Correlation studies were alsoperformed between phenolic composition (TPC, TFC and TTC) and differentbiological activities.RESULTS: Ethanol extract showed maximum TPC (0.126 mg/g, gallic acid equivalentin dry sample), TFC (0.094 mg/g, rutin equivalent in dry sample) and TTC(29.32 mg/g, catechin equivalent in dry sample), as well as antioxidant andanti-inflammatory properties. Chloroform extract exhibited the strongestcytotoxicity against the human breast cancer cell line, MCF-7. GC/MS analysisrevealed the presence of 90 different phytoconstituents among the extracts.Antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities had a positive correlation with TPC,TFC and TTC. However, the anticancer activity showed a negative correlation with TPC, TFC and TTC.CONCLUSION: From the present study, it can be concluded that P. verticillatumpossessed remarkable antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer activities,which could be due to different secondary metabolites of the plant. Phenoliccompounds are likely responsible for antioxidant and anti-inflammatoryactivities. However, flavonoids and other compounds might contribute to theanticancer potential of the plant.Copyright © 2018 Shanghai Changhai Hospital. Published by Elsevier B.V. Allrights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.joim.2018.04.005 PMID: 29706573 