77. Nat Rev Cancer. 2018 Aug;18(8):485-499. doi: 10.1038/s41568-018-0010-y.Inflammatory breast cancer biology: the tumour microenvironment is key.Lim B(1)(2), Woodward WA(3)(4), Wang X(5)(3), Reuben JM(3)(6), Ueno NT(7)(8).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. blim@mdanderson.org.(2)Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic, TheUniversity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.blim@mdanderson.org.(3)Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic, TheUniversity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX, USA.(5)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(6)Department of Hematopathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX, USA.(7)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. nueno@mdanderson.org.(8)Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic, TheUniversity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.nueno@mdanderson.org.Erratum in    Nat Rev Cancer. 2018 May 10;:.Inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) is a rare and aggressive disease that accountsfor ~2-4% of all breast cancers. However, despite its low incidence rate, IBC is responsible for 7-10% of breast cancer-related mortality in Western countries.Thus, the discovery of robust biological targets and the development of moreeffective therapeutics in IBC are crucial. Despite major international efforts tounderstand IBC biology, genomic studies have not led to the discovery of distinctbiological mechanisms in IBC that can be translated into novel therapeuticstrategies. In this Review, we discuss these molecular profiling efforts andhighlight other important aspects of IBC biology. We present the intrinsiccharacteristics of IBC, including stemness, metastatic potential and hormonereceptor positivity; the extrinsic features of the IBC tumour microenvironment(TME), including various constituent cell types; and lastly, the communicationbetween these intrinsic and extrinsic components. We summarize the latestperspectives on the key biological features of IBC, with particular emphasis onthe TME as an important contributor to the aggressive nature of IBC. On the basisof the current understanding of IBC, we hope to develop the next generation oftranslational studies, which will lead to much-needed survival improvements inpatients with this deadly disease.DOI: 10.1038/s41568-018-0010-y PMID: 29703913 