189. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2018 Apr 30. doi: 10.1089/jwh.2017.6689. [Epub aheadof print]Factors Influencing Overuse of Breast Cancer Screening: A Systematic Review.Sharma R(1), Pannikottu J(2), Xu Y(1), Tung M(2), Nothelle S(2), Oakes AH(1),Segal JB(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)1 Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health , Baltimore,Maryland.(2)2 Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine ,Baltimore, Maryland.(3)3 Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Services and Outcomes Research , Baltimore, Maryland.BACKGROUND: Excessive breast cancer screening with mammography or othermodalities often burdens patients with false-positive results and costs. Yet,screening patients beyond the age at which they will benefit or at too frequentintervals persists. This review summarizes the factors associated with overuse ofbreast cancer screening.METHODS: We searched Medline and Embase from January 1998 to March 2017 forarticles addressing the overuse of breast cancer screening and hand-searched the reference lists of included articles. Studies were included if they were written in English, pertained to a U.S. population, and identified a factor associatedspecifically with overuse of breast imaging. Paired reviewers independentlyscreened abstracts, extracted data, and assessed quality.RESULTS: We included 15 studies: 3 cohort, 5 cross-sectional, 6 surveys, and 1in-depth interview. White women (non-Hispanic) were less vulnerable than otherracial groups to overuse in 3 of 5 studies. Physician specialty was consistently associated with screening overuse in three of three studies. Abundant access toprimary care and a patient desire for screening were associated with breastcancer screening overuse. Lower self-confidence, lower risk taking tendencies,higher perception of conflict in expert recommendations, and a belief inscreening effectiveness were clinician traits associated with overuse ofscreening in the surveys.CONCLUSIONS: The literature supports that liberal access to care and clinicians' recommendations to screen, possibly influenced by conflicting guidelines,increase excessive breast cancer screening. Overuse might conceivably be reduced with more concordance across guidelines, physician education, patient involvementin decision-making, thoughtful insurance restrictions, and limitations on thesupply of services; however, these will need careful testing regarding theirimpact.DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2017.6689 PMID: 29708809 