Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors have no financialinterest to declare in relation to the content of this article. The ArticleProcessing Charge was paid for by the authors.18. Plast Reconstr Surg Glob Open. 2018 Mar 6;6(3):e1640. doi:10.1097/GOX.0000000000001640. eCollection 2018 Mar.The Functional Impact of Breast Reconstruction: An Overview and Update.Nelson JA(1), Lee IT(1), Disa JJ(1).Author information: (1)Section of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering CancerCenter, New York, N.Y.; and Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.As rates of bilateral mastectomy and immediate reconstruction rise, the aestheticand psychosocial benefits of breast reconstruction are increasingly wellunderstood. However, an understanding of functional outcome and its optimization is still lacking. This endpoint is critical to maximizing postoperative qualityof life. All reconstructive modalities have possible functional consequences.Studies demonstrate that implant-based reconstruction impacts subjectivemovement, but patients' day-to-day function may not be objectively hindereddespite self-reported disability. For latissimus dorsi flap reconstruction,patients also report some dysfunction at the donor site, but this does not seemto result in significant, long-lasting limitation of daily activity. Athletic andother vigorous activities are most affected. For abdominal free flaps, patientperception of postoperative disability is generally not significant, despite the varying degrees of objective disadvantage that have been identified depending on the extent of rectus muscle sacrifice. With these functional repercussions inmind, a broader perspective on the attempt to ensure minimal functional declineafter breast surgery should focus not only on surgical technique but also onpostoperative rehabilitation. Early directed physical therapy may be aninstrumental element in facilitating return to baseline function. With thepatient's optimal quality of life as an overarching objective, a multifacetedapproach to functional preservation may be the answer to this continuedchallenge. This review will examine these issues in depth in an effort to better understand postoperative functional outcomes with a focus on the younger, active breast reconstruction patient.DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000001640 PMCID: PMC5908499PMID: 29707442 