50. Ann Diagn Pathol. 2018 Aug;35:38-41. doi: 10.1016/j.anndiagpath.2018.04.001. Epub2018 Apr 21.Multifocal occurrence of extra-abdominal desmoid type fibromatosis - A raremanifestation. A clinicopathological study of 6 sporadic cases and 1 hereditarycase.Bekers EM(1), van Broekhoven DLM(2), van Dalen T(3), Bonenkamp JJ(4), van derGeest ICM(5), de Rooy JWJ(6), van Gorp JM(7), Creytens DH(8), de Leng WWJ(9),Scheijen B(10), Eijkelenboom A(10), Flucke U(11).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands; Department of Pathologie (DNA), Jeroen Bosch Hospital, Den Bosch,The Netherlands.(2)Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.(3)Department of Surgery Diakonessenhuis Utrecht, University Medical CenterUtrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.(4)Department of Surgical Oncology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.(5)Department of Orthopedics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands.(6)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Radboud University MedicalCenter, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.(7)Department of Pathology, Diakonessenhuis Utrecht, The Netherlands.(8)Department of Pathology, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, Belgium.(9)Department of Pathologie, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, TheNetherlands.(10)Department of Pathology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands.(11)Department of Pathology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands. Electronic address: uta.flucke@radboudumc.nl.Desmoid-type fibromatosis, also called desmoid tumor, is a locally aggressivemyofibroblastic neoplasm that usually arises in deep soft tissue with significantpotential for local recurrence. It displays an unpredictable clinical course.β-Catenin, the genetic key player of desmoid tumors shows nuclear accumulationdue to mutations that prevent its degradation leading to activation of Wntsignaling and myofibroblastic cell proliferation. The corresponding hot spotmutations are located in exon 3 of the CTNNB1 gene or alternatively, in the APCtumor suppressor gene, most often as a germline mutation. Multifocal desmoidtumors are very rare and clinical characteristics are poorly understood. Here we present six sporadic and one familial case of multifocal desmoid tumors. Fourfemale and three male patients, aged between 7 and 30 years (mean 18.4 years)were identified in a cohort of 1392 cases. Tumors were located in (distal)extremities, thorax, breast, abdominal wall, shoulder, and neck. Four casesshowed a CTNNB1 mutation and one an APC germline mutation. In two sporadic cases no CTNNB1 mutation was identified. Four patients showed (multiple) recurrencesand one patient was lost to follow-up. In conclusion, multifocal desmoid tumorsare a very rare disease and may occur in sporadic cases that are characterized byrecurrent CTNNB1 mutations. However, the underlying pathogenesis of multifocaldesmoid tumors remains poorly understood with often aggressive clinical behavior and challenging therapeutical management.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.anndiagpath.2018.04.001 PMID: 29705714 