57. Toxicon. 2018 Jun 15;148:165-171. doi: 10.1016/j.toxicon.2018.04.024. Epub 2018Apr 27.Anti-neoplastic activity of Amblyomma sculptum, Amblyomma parvum andRhipicephalus sanguineus tick saliva on breast tumor cell lines.Sousa ACP(1), Oliveira CJF(2), Szabó MPJ(3), Silva MJB(4).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Tumor Biomarkers and Osteoimmunology, Institute of BiomedicalSciences, Federal University of Uberlândia, MG, Brazil; Ixodologia Laboratory,Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Federal University of Uberlândia, MG, Brazil.Electronic address: carolsousa.enf.ufu@hotmail.com.(2)Institute of Natural and Biological Sciences, Laboratory of Immunology,Federal University of Triângulo Mineiro, Uberaba, MG, Brazil.(3)Ixodologia Laboratory, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Federal University ofUberlândia, MG, Brazil.(4)Laboratory of Tumor Biomarkers and Osteoimmunology, Institute of BiomedicalSciences, Federal University of Uberlândia, MG, Brazil.Cancer is one of the most troubling diseases and is becoming increasingly common.Breast cancer has a high cure rate when diagnosed early, but when diagnosed late,treatment is frequently painful, devastating and unsuccessful. The search for newtreatments that are more effective and less harmful has led to several substancesand biomolecules from plants and animals with potential anti-tumor activity.Within this context, ticks have emerged as an excellent source of new moleculeswith a wide array of therapeutic properties. Various molecules in tick salivahave immunomodulatory, anticoagulant, anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor effectsacross different tumor cell lines. Our study evaluates the effect of saliva from three widespread and important tick species in Brazil (Amblyomma sculptum,Amblyomma parvum and Rhipicephalus sanguineus) on MCF-7, MDA-MB-231 breast cancercell lines and on the non-neoplastic MCF-10A cell line. We found that tick salivafrom all three tick species showed cytotoxicity to tumor cells (MCF-7,MDA-MB-231) but not to the non-tumor cells (MCF-10A). Morphological changes onthe surface of MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 tumor cells did not occur on the MCF-10Acells. We also demonstrated that tumor cells die by apoptosis induced bycaspase-3 and caspase 7 activity, suggesting that intrinsic pathway apoptosis maybe triggered by tick saliva. These changes were not observed in MCF10A cells,which remained broadly unchanged even after exposure to diverse types of saliva. These results suggest that tick saliva from these tick species is a source ofmolecules, or biomolecules, useful for the potential source for the developmentof new breast cancer drugs.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.toxicon.2018.04.024 PMID: 29705147 