54. Cell Signal. 2018 Aug;48:45-53. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2018.04.008. Epub 2018 Apr26.Molecular mechanisms of platelet activation and aggregation induced by breastcancer cells.Zarà M(1), Canobbio I(1), Visconte C(1), Canino J(1), Torti M(2), Guidetti GF(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biology and Biotechnology, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.(2)Department of Biology and Biotechnology, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.Electronic address: mtorti@unipv.it.Tumor cell-induced platelet aggregation represents a critical process both forsuccessful metastatic spread of the tumor and for the development of thromboticcomplications in cancer patients. To get further insights into this process, weinvestigated and compared the molecular mechanisms of platelet aggregationinduced by two different breast cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231 and MCF7) and acolorectal cancer cell line (Caco-2). All the three types of cancer cells wereable to induce comparable platelet aggregation, which, however, was observedexclusively in the presence of CaCl2 and autologous plasma. Aggregation wassupported both by fibrinogen binding to integrin αIIbβ3 as well as by fibrinformation, and was completely prevented by the serine protease inhibitor PPACK.Platelet aggregation was preceded by generation of low amounts of thrombin,possibly through tumor cells-expressed tissue factor, and was supported byplatelet activation, as revealed by stimulation of phospholipase C, intracellularCa2+ increase and activation of Rap1b GTPase. Pharmacological inhibition ofphospholipase C, but not of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase or Src family kinasesprevented tumor cell-induced platelet aggregation. Tumor cells also induced densegranule secretion, and the stimulation of the P2Y12 receptor by released ADP was found to be necessary for complete platelet aggregation. By contrast, prevention of thromboxane A2 synthesis by aspirin did not alter the ability of all thecancer cell lines analyzed to induce platelet aggregation. These results indicatethat tumor cell-induced platelet aggregation is not related to the type of thecancer cells or to their metastatic potential, and is triggered by plateletactivation and secretion driven by the generation of small amount of thrombinfrom plasma and supported by the positive feedback signaling through secretedADP.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2018.04.008 PMID: 29705335 