81. Oncologist. 2018 Apr 27. pii: theoncologist.2017-0614. doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0614. [Epub ahead of print]Emerging Gene Fusion Drivers in Primary and Metastatic Central Nervous SystemMalignancies: A Review of Available Evidence for Systemic Targeted Therapies.Brastianos PK(1), Ippen FM(2), Hafeez U(3), Gan HK(3)(4)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, HarvardMedical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA Pbrastianos@mgh.harvard.edu.(2)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, HarvardMedical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(3)Medical Oncology, Austin Hospital, Heidelberg, Melbourne, Australia.(4)La Trobe University School of Cancer Medicine, Heidelberg, Victoria,Australia.(5)Department of Medicine, University of Melbourne, Heidelberg, Victoria,Australia.Primary and metastatic tumors of the central nervous system present a difficultclinical challenge, and they are a common cause of disease progression and death.For most patients, treatment consists primarily of surgery and/or radiotherapy.In recent years, systemic therapies have become available or are underinvestigation for patients whose tumors are driven by specific geneticalterations, and some of these targeted treatments have been associated withdramatic improvements in extracranial and intracranial disease control andsurvival. However, the success of other systemic therapies has been hindered byinadequate penetration of the drug into the brain parenchyma. Advances inmolecular characterization of oncogenic drivers have led to the identification ofnew gene fusions driving oncogenesis in some of the most common sources ofintracranial tumors. Systemic therapies targeting many of these alterations have been approved recently or are in clinical development, and the ability topenetrate the blood-brain barrier is now widely recognized as an importantproperty of such drugs. We review this rapidly advancing field with a focus onrecently uncovered gene fusions and brain-penetrant systemic therapies targeting them.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Driver gene fusions involving receptor tyrosinekinases have been identified across a wide range of tumor types, includingprimary central nervous system (CNS) tumors and extracranial solid tumors thatare associated with high rates of metastasis to the CNS (e.g., lung, breast,melanoma). This review discusses the systemic therapies that target emerging genefusions, with a focus on brain-penetrant agents that will target the intracranialdisease and, where present, also extracranial disease.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0614 PMID: 29703764 