38. BMJ Open. 2018 Apr 29;8(4):e019050. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019050.Variations in outcomes by residential location for women with breast cancer: asystematic review.Dasgupta P(1), Baade PD(1)(2)(3), Youlden DR(1), Garvey G(4), Aitken JF(1)(5)(6),Wallington I(7), Chynoweth J(7), Zorbas H(7), Youl PH(1)(2)(5).Author information: (1)Cancer Research Centre, Cancer Council Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia.(2)None, Menzies Health Institute Queensland, Griffith University, Brisbane,Queensland, Australia.(3)School of Mathematical Sciences, Queensland University of Technology,Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.(4)Menzies School of Health Research, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.(5)School of Public Health and Social Work, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.(6)Institute for Resilient Regions, University of Southern Queensland, Toowoomba,Queensland, Australia.(7)Cancer Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.OBJECTIVES: To systematically assess the evidence for variations in outcomes ateach step along the breast cancer continuum of care for Australian women byresidential location.DESIGN: Systematic review.METHODS: Systematic searches of peer-reviewed articles in English published from 1 January 1990 to 24 November 2017 using PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL and Informitdatabases. Inclusion criteria were: population was adult female patients withbreast cancer; Australian setting; outcome measure was survival, patient ortumour characteristics, screening rates or frequencies, clinical management,patterns of initial care or post-treatment follow-up with analysis by residentiallocation or studies involving non-metropolitan women only. Included studies were critically appraised using a modified Newcastle-Ottawa Scale.RESULTS: Seventy-four quantitative studies met the inclusion criteria. Around 59%were considered high quality, 34% moderate and 7% low. No eligible studiesexamining treatment choices or post-treatment follow-up were identified.Non-metropolitan women consistently had poorer survival, with most of thisdifferential being attributed to more advanced disease at diagnosis,treatment-related factors and socioeconomic disadvantage. Compared withmetropolitan women, non-metropolitan women were more likely to live indisadvantaged areas and had differing clinical management and patterns of care.However, findings regarding geographical variations in tumour characteristics or diagnostic outcomes were inconsistent.CONCLUSIONS: A general pattern of poorer survival and variations in clinicalmanagement for Australian female patients with breast cancer fromnon-metropolitan areas was evident. However, the wide variability in datasources, measures, study quality, time periods and geographical classificationmade direct comparisons across studies challenging. The review highlighted theneed to promote standardisation of geographical classifications and increasedcomparability of data systems. It also identified key gaps in the existingliterature including a lack of studies on advanced breast cancer, geographicalvariations in treatment choices from the perspective of patients andpost-treatment follow-up.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019050 PMCID: PMC5935167PMID: 29706597 