47. BJOG. 2018 Apr 28. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.15258. [Epub ahead of print]Breast and reproductive cancers in the transgender population: a systematicreview.Joint R(1), Chen ZE(2), Cameron S(2)(3).Author information: (1)The University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.(2)Chalmers Sexual Health Clinic, Edinburgh, UK.(3)Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Edinburgh, Royal Infirmary ofEdinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.BACKGROUND: The medical transition undergone by a transgender person mayinfluence their risk of breast or reproductive cancer.OBJECTIVES: To assess breast and reproductive cancer prevalence in thetransgender population. To elucidate any associations between gender-affirminghormones and risk of these cancers.SEARCH STRATEGY: Following registration of review protocol with PROSPERO, fivedatabases were searched.SELECTION CRITERIA: Included studies investigated breast, ovarian, uterine,cervical, vaginal, neovaginal, testicular and prostate cancer in the transgender population. Secondary studies, opinions, editorials and conference abstracts wereexcluded. No date, language or setting restrictions were applied.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two reviewers conducted literature searches andapplied inclusion and exclusion criteria to the results. Studies werecategorised, aggregated and analysed by study population (transmen/transwomen)and type of cancer.MAIN RESULTS: The literature search produced 228 articles; 43 were included. The overall evidence quality was very low to low. In transgender women, 20 breastcancer cases, two neovaginal cancer cases, one testicular cancer case and eightprostate cancer cases were reported. In transgender men, 18 breast cancer cases, five ovarian cancer cases, four uterine/cervical cancer cases and one vaginalcancer case were reported.CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence to estimate breast or reproductivecancer prevalence in the transgender population. Gender-affirming hormones havenot been shown to affect cancer risk, but there is a clear need forwell-designed, robust studies to confirm or refute this.FUNDING: This study was undertaken as an education dissertation. No funding wasreceived.TWEETABLE ABSTRACT: Little is known about the impact of gender-affirming hormoneson breast or reproductive cancers in trans people.© 2018 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.15258 PMID: 29706033 