113. Anticancer Res. 2018 May;38(5):3049-3054.Bone Mineral Density as a Potential Predictive Factor for Luminal-type BreastCancer in Postmenopausal Women.Lumachi F(1), Basso SMM(2), Camozzi V(3), Spaziante R(4), Ubiali P(5), ErmaniM(6).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Oncology & Gastroenterology, School of Medicine,University of Padua, Padua, Italy.(2)Department of Surgery, S. Maria degli Angeli Hospital, Pordenone, ItalyDrsteba@tin.it.(3)Department of Medicine (DiMed), School of Medicine, University of Padua,Padua, Italy.(4)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, S. Maria degli Angeli Hospital, Pordenone,Italy.(5)Department of Surgery, S. Maria degli Angeli Hospital, Pordenone, Italy.(6)Department of Neurosciences (DNS), Statistic and Informatics Unit, School ofMedicine, University of Padua, Padua, Italy.BACKGROUND/AIM: We performed a case-control study to evaluate whether bonemineral density (BMD) can be considered a potential predictive factor forluminal-type breast cancer (BC), that could be useful in constructing apredictive risk model.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The medical records of 297 postmenopausal women withluminal-type node-negative BC who underwent lumbar-spine dual-energy X-rayabsorptiometry (DXA) with BMD measurement before surgery, were analyzed andcompared with those of 297 age-matched randomly selected healthy controls. Thecorrelations between women's reproductive history, including the age at menarche and menopause, parity, oral contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy (HRT) use, the results of DXA, and BC risk were evaluated in univariate andmultivariate analyses.RESULTS: Overall, 168 (28.3%) women had osteoporosis and/or osteopenia (low BMD).Both bone alterations were protective factors for BC, especially when they wereconsidered together (p=0.001). Only the interval between menarche and menopause(MMI), dichotomized at 37.5 years as an optimal cut-off, and the HRT use reached a statistical significance (p<0.01) as risk factors. The three parameters wereindependent because they remained significant in the stepwise logistic regressionanalysis. The area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) obtained with the model was 0.694 (95%CI=0.694-0.731).CONCLUSION: This hypothesized predictive model is fairly accurate and couldidentify patients at increased risk of developing luminal-type BC in a populationof postmenopausal women who performed DXA, simply based on their history.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.12561 PMID: 29715139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]