77. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2018 May 2. doi:10.1152/ajpregu.00444.2017. [Epub ahead of print]ZnT2 is critical for lysosome acidification and biogenesis during mammary glandinvolution.Rivera OC(1), Hennigar SR(2), Kelleher SL(3).Author information: (1)Cell and Molecular Physiology, Pennsylvania State University Hershey Collegeof Medicine, United States.(2)Military Nutrition Division, U.S. Army Research Institute of EnvironmentalMedicine, United States.(3)Biomedical and Nutritional Sciences, The University of Massachusetts Lowell,United States.Mammary gland involution is a tightly regulated process of tissue remodeling bywhich a lactating mammary gland reverts to the pre-pregnant state, and ischaracterized by the most profound example of regulated epithelial cell death in normal tissue. Defects in the execution of involution are associated withlactation failure and breast cancer. Initiation of mammary gland involutionrequires upregulation of lysosomal biogenesis and acidification to activatelysosomal-mediated cell death (LCD); however, specific mediators of this initial phase of involution are not well-described. The zinc transporter ZnT2 (SLC30A2)has been previously implicated in lysosome biogenesis and LCD during involution; however, the direct role of ZnT2 in this process has not been elucidated. Here weshowed that ZnT2-null mice had impaired alveolar regression and reducedactivation of the involution marker pStat3, indicating insufficient mammary glandremodeling during involution. Moreover, we found the loss of ZnT2 inhibitedassembly of the proton transporter vacuolar ATPase (v-ATPase) on lysosomes,thereby decreasing lysosome abundance and size. Studies in cultured mammaryepithelial cells revealed that while the involution signal tumor necrosis factor α promoted lysosome biogenesis and acidification, attenuation of ZnT2 impairedthe lysosomal response to this involution signal, which was not a consequence of cytoplasmic zinc accumulation. Our findings establish ZnT2 as novel regulator of v-ATPase assembly, driving lysosome biogenesis, acidification and tissueremodeling during mammary gland involution.DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00444.2017 PMID: 29718697 