40. Front Oncol. 2018 Apr 17;8:112. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00112. eCollection 2018.Local and Regional Breast Cancer Recurrences: Salvage Therapy Options in the New Era of Molecular Subtypes.Belkacemi Y(1), Hanna NE(2), Besnard C(1), Majdoul S(1), Gligorov J(3).Author information: (1)Henri Mondor Breast Center, Radiation Oncology Department of the Henri Mondor University Hospital, University of Paris Est Creteil (UPEC), INSERM Unit 955,EQ07, Créteil, France.(2)Kasr Al-Aini Center of Clinical Oncology and Nuclear Medicine Department,Cairo University, Cairo, Egypt.(3)Sorbonne University, INSERM U938, APHP Tenon, Breast Cancer Expert Center,Paris, France.Isolated local or regional recurrence of breast cancer (BC) leads to an increasedrisk of metastases and decreased survival. Ipsilateral breast recurrence canoccur at the initial tumor bed or in another quadrant of the breast. Depending ontumor patterns and molecular subtypes, the risk and time to onset of metastaticrecurrence differs. HER2-positive and triple-negative (TNG) BC have a risk oflocoregional relapse between six and eight times than luminal A. Thus, themanagement of local and locoregional relapses must take into account theprognostic factors for metastatic disease development. It is important topersonalize the overall management, including or not systemic treatment accordingto the metastatic risk. All isolated recurrence cases should be treated withcurative intent. Complete surgical resection is recommended whenever possible.Patients who did not receive postoperative irradiation during their initialmanagement should receive full-dose radiotherapy to the chest wall and to theregional lymph nodes if appropriate. Overall, total mastectomy is the "goldstandard" among patients who were previously treated by conservative surgeryfollowed by radiation therapy. In terms of systemic therapy, the benefits ofadditional treatments are not conclusively proven in cases of isolatedrecurrence. The beneficial role of chemotherapy has been reported in at least onerandomized trial, while endocrine therapy and anti-HER2 are common practice. Thisreview will discuss salvage treatment options of local and locoregionalrecurrences in the new era of BC molecular subtypes.DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00112 PMCID: PMC5913327PMID: 29719816 