Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.61. Int J Nanomedicine. 2018 Apr 19;13:2427-2433. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S153163.eCollection 2018.Combined use of fluorescence with a magnetic tracer and dilution effect uponsentinel node localization in a murine model.Kuwahata A(#)(1), Ahmed M(#)(2), Saeki K(3), Chikaki S(1), Kaneko M(1), Qiu W(1),Xin Z(1), Yamaguchi S(3), Kaneko A(1), Douek M(2), Kusakabe M(3)(4), Sekino M(1).Author information: (1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Systems, Graduate School of Engineering, The University of Tokyo, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.(2)Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London, Guy's Hospital Campus,Great Maze Pond, London, UK.(3)Graduate School of Agriculture and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo,Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.(4)Matrix Cell Research Institute Inc., Ibaraki, Japan.(#)Contributed equallyBackground: Sentinel node biopsy using radioisotope and blue dye remains a goldstandard for axillary staging in breast cancer patients with low axillary burden.However, limitations in the use of radioisotopes have resulted in emergence ofnovel techniques. This is the first in vivo study to assess the feasibility ofcombining the two most common novel techniques of using a magnetic tracer andindocyanine green (ICG) fluorescence.Materials and methods: A total of 48 mice were divided into eight groups. Groups 1 and 2, the co-localization groups, received an injection of magnetic tracers(Resovist® and Sienna+®, respectively) and ICG fluorescence; distilled water was used as the solvent of ICG. Groups 3 and 4, the diluted injection groups,received an injection of magnetic tracers (Resovist and Sienna+, respectively)and saline for dilution. Groups 5, 6, and 7, the control groups, receivedmagnetic tracer (Resovist, Sienna+) and ICG alone, respectively. Fluorescentintensity assessment and iron quantification of excised popliteal lymph nodeswere performed. Group 1', a co-localization group, received an injection ofmagnetic tracers (Resovist) and ICG' fluorescence: saline was used as the solventfor ICG.Results: Lymphatic uptake of all tracers was confined to the popliteal nodesonly, with co-localization confirmed in all cases and no significant differencein fluorescent intensity or iron content of ex vivo nodes between the groups(except for Group 1'). There was no impact of dilution on the iron content in thediluted Sienna+ group, but it significantly enhanced Resovist uptake (P=0.005).In addition, there was a significant difference in iron content (P=0.003) inGroup 1'.Conclusion: The combination of a magnetic tracer (Resovist or Sienna+) and ICGfluorescence is feasible for sentinel node biopsy and will potentially allow for precise transcutaneous node identification, in addition to accurateintraoperative assessment. This radioisotope-free "combined technique" warrantsfurther assessment within a clinical trial.DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S153163 PMCID: PMC5914738PMID: 29719391  [Indexed for MEDLINE]