139. Int J Behav Med. 2018 Aug;25(4):390-398. doi: 10.1007/s12529-018-9722-3.Influences on Satisfaction with Reconstructed Breasts and Intimacy in YoungerWomen Following Bilateral Prophylactic Mastectomy: a Qualitative Analysis.Glassey R(1), O'Connor M(2), Ives A(3), Saunders C(3), Hardcastle SJ(2); kConFab Investigators.Author information: (1)Medical School, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.rachael.glassey@research.uwa.edu.au.(2)School of Psychology, Curtin University, Perth, Australia.(3)Medical School, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to explore the influences on satisfaction withreconstructed breasts and intimacy following bilateral prophylactic mastectomy(BPM) in younger women (< 35) with a strong family history of breast cancer.METHODS: Twenty-six women who had undergone BPM between 1 and6 years ago wererecruited from New Zealand and Australia through a genetics clinic, registry,research cohort, and online (Mage = 31). Twenty-three were BRCA mutationcarriers. Qualitative interviews guided by interpretative phenomenologicalanalysis were conducted.RESULTS: Four themes were identified: satisfaction with breasts before surgery,outcome expectations, type of mastectomy, and open communication. Women who likedtheir breasts pre-BPM appeared less satisfied with their reconstructed breastspost-surgery, and women who disliked their breasts before BPM were more satisfiedwith their reconstructed breasts. Women with unrealistic expectations concerning the look and feel of reconstructed breasts were often unhappy with theirreconstructed breasts and felt they did not meet their expectations. Unrealistic photos of breast reconstruction and satisfactory communication of realisticoutcome expectations by surgeons or psychologists also appeared to influencesatisfaction. Communication with partners prior to BPM appeared to improvesatisfaction with intimacy post-BPM.CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that satisfaction with reconstructed breastsfor younger women post-BPM appeared to be influenced by realistic outcomeexpectations and communication with others concerning reconstructed breastappearance and intimacy post-BPM. Implications for practice include discussion ofrealistic reconstructed breast appearance, referral to a psychologist to discuss sensitive issues, and accurate communication of surgical risks and consequences.DOI: 10.1007/s12529-018-9722-3 PMID: 29713993 