Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.62. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2018 Apr 19;12:921-934. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S158001.eCollection 2018.Chitosan-alginate BSA-gel-capsules for local chemotherapy against drug-resistant breast cancer.Shen H(1), Li F(1), Wang D(1), Yang Z(1), Yao C(1), Ye Y(1), Wang X(2).Author information: (1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health Laboratory Science, Schoolof Medicine, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu Province, China.(2)Department of Internal Medicine of Jiangsu University Hospital Workers, TheAffiliated Hospital of Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu Province, China.Background and object: Polyelectrolyte microcapsule is a promising candidate for multifunctional drug delivery system. However, the lack of reports about animalexperiments have greatly slowed down their development for drug delivery. Weengineered biodegradable chitosan-alginate polyelectrolyte multilayer capsulefilled with bovine serum albumin gel (BSA-gel-capsule). Herein, we demonstratedtheir applicability for local chemotherapy, a means of treating local or regionalmalignancies by direct administration of anti-tumor agents to tumor sites.Method: Doxorubicin (DOX) was loaded in BSA-gel-capsules and DOX-resistant cellline (MCF-7/ADR cells) was employed for antitumor studies in vitro. Thecytotoxicity, cellular uptake and distribution of DOX from BSA-gel-capsules were studied. Afterwards, MCF-7/ADR xenografts tumor model was established in nudemice. The in vivo antitumor efficacy of DOX-loaded BSA-gel-capsules by intratumorinjection was then evaluated.Result: Compared with free DOX, more effective cytotoxicity against MCF-7/ADRcells after treatment with DOX-loaded BSA-gel-capsules was revealed,demonstrating the positive reversal effect on drug-resistance. Thereafter, themore cellular uptake and nucleus distribution of DOX from BSA-gel-capsules inMCF-7/ADR cells provided convincing explanation for the reversal effect.DOX-loaded BSA-gel-capsules displayed remarkably more antitumor efficacy thanfree DOX in MCF-7/ADR cell-xenografted mice. Finally, the high DOX accumulationand prolonged retention in tumor site after local administration of DOX-loadedBSA-gel-capsules was demonstrated, displaying the unique advantages ofBSA-gel-capsules for local chemotherapy.Conclusion: These findings indicate that DOX-loaded BSA-gel-capsules should beconsidered a potential candidate for the treatment of drug-resistant breastcancer. This paper provides a feasibility for the local chemotherapy ofpolyelectrolyte microcapsules, which will be a big step towards their applicationas drug delivery vehicles.DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S158001 PMCID: PMC5914552PMID: 29719378 