53. Curr Oncol. 2018 Apr;25(2):e176-e180. doi: 10.3747/co.25.3707. Epub 2018 Apr 30.Ataxia-telangiectasia gene (ATM) mutation heterozygosity in breast cancer: anarrative review.Jerzak KJ(1), Mancuso T(1), Eisen A(1).Author information: (1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON.Background: Despite the fact that heterozygosity for a pathogenic ATM variant is present in 1%-2% of the adult population, clinical guidelines to informphysicians and genetic counsellors about optimal management in that populationare lacking.Methods: In this narrative review, we describe the challenges and controversiesin the management of women who are heterozygous for a pathogenic ATM variant withrespect to screening for breast and other malignancies, to choices for systemictherapy, and to decisions about radiation therapy.Results: Given that the lifetime risk for breast cancer in women who areheterozygous for a pathogenic ATM variant is likely greater than 25%, those womenshould undergo annual mammographic screening starting at least by 40 years ofage. For women in this group who have a strong family history of breast cancer,earlier screening with both magnetic resonance imaging and mammography should be considered. High-quality data to inform the management of established breastcancer in carriers of pathogenic ATM variants are lacking. Although deficiency inthe ATM gene product might confer sensitivity to dna-damaging pharmaceuticalssuch as inhibitors of poly (adp-ribose) polymerase or platinum agents,prospective clinical trials have not been conducted in the relevant patientpopulation. Furthermore, the evidence with respect to radiation therapy is mixed;some data suggest increased toxicity, and other data suggest improved clinicalbenefit from radiation in women who are carriers of a pathogenic ATM variant.Conclusions: As in the 2017 U.S. National Comprehensive Cancer Networkguidelines, we recommend high-risk imaging for women in Ontario who areheterozygous for a pathogenic ATM variant. Currently, ATM carrier status shouldnot influence decisions about systemic or radiation therapy in the setting of an established breast cancer diagnosis.DOI: 10.3747/co.25.3707 PMCID: PMC5927797PMID: 29719442 