111. PLoS One. 2018 May 1;13(5):e0188911. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188911.eCollection 2018.Exome array analysis of adverse reactions to fluoropyrimidine-based therapy forgastrointestinal cancer.Traylor M(1), Walker JL(1)(2), Corrigan AA(3), Hernandez MA(3), Newhouse SJ(4),Folarin AA(4), Patel H(4), Ross PJ(5), Sanderson JD(5), Spicer J(6), PrescottNJ(1), Mathew CG(1)(7), Marinaki AM(3), Lewis CM(1)(8).Author information: (1)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, King's College London, London,United Kingdom.(2)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.(3)Purine Research Laboratory, GSTS Pathology, Guy's and St. Thomas' Hospital NHSFoundation Trust, St. Thomas Hospital, London, United Kingdom.(4)National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Biomedical Research Centre forMental Health at South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust and (Institute ofPsychiatry), King's College London, London, United Kingdom.(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Guy's and St. Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust andKing's College London, London, United Kingdom.(6)Division of Cancer Studies, King's College London, Guy's Hospital, London,United Kingdom.(7)Sydney Brenner Institute for Molecular Bioscience, University of theWitwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.(8)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.Fluoropyrimidines, including 5-fluororacil (5FU) and its pro-drug Capecitabine,are the common treatment for colorectal, breast, neck and head cancers-either as monotherapy or in combination therapy. Adverse reactions (ADRs) to the treatment are common and often result in treatment discontinuation or dose reduction.Factors contributing to ADRs, including genetic variation, are poorlycharacterized. We performed exome array analysis to identify genetic variantsthat contribute to adverse reactions. Our final dataset consisted of 504 Europeanancestry individuals undergoing fluoropyrimidine-based therapy forgastrointestinal cancer. A subset of 254 of these were treated with Capecitabine.All individuals were genotyped on the Illumina HumanExome Array. Firstly, weperformed SNP and gene-level analyses of protein-altering variants on the arrayto identify novel associations the following ADRs, which were grouped into fourphenotypes based on symptoms of diarrhea, mucositis, and neutropenia andhand-and-foot syndrome. Secondly, we performed detailed analyses of the HLAregion on the same phenotypes after imputing the HLA alleles and amino acids. No protein-altering variants, or sets of protein-altering variants collapsed intogenes, were associated with the main outcomes after Bonferroni correction. Wefound evidence that the HLA region was enriched for associations withHand-and-Foot syndrome (p = 0.023), but no specific SNPs or HLA alleles weresignificant after Bonferroni correction. Larger studies will be required tocharacterize the genetic contribution to ADRs to 5FU. Future studies that focuson the HLA region are likely to be fruitful.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188911 PMCID: PMC5929530PMID: 29715290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]