101. BMC Cancer. 2018 May 2;18(1):495. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4410-x.Staining of E-selectin ligands on paraffin-embedded sections of tumor tissue.Carrascal MA(1)(2), Talina C(2), Borralho P(2)(3), Gonçalo Mineiro A(1),Henriques AR(2), Pen C(4), Martins M(4), Braga S(3), Sackstein R(5)(6), VideiraPA(7)(8).Author information: (1)UCIBIO, Departamento Ciências da Vida, Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia,Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.(2)CEDOC, Chronic Diseases Research Center, NOVA Medical School/Faculdade deCiências Médicas, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal.(3)Hospital CUF Descobertas, Lisbon, Portugal.(4)Centro Hospitalar de Lisboa Central, EPE e Serviço de Anatomia Patológica,Lisbon, Portugal.(5)Departments of Dermatology and Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital, HarvardMedical School, Boston, USA.(6)Program of Excellence in Glycosciences, Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA.(7)UCIBIO, Departamento Ciências da Vida, Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia,Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal. p.videira@fct.unl.pt.(8)CDG & Allies - Professionals and Patient Associations International Network(CDG & Allies - PPAIN), Caparica, Portugal. p.videira@fct.unl.pt.BACKGROUND: The E-selectin ligands expressed by cancer cells mediate adhesion of circulating cancer cells to endothelial cells, as well as within tissuemicroenvironments important for tumor progression and metastasis. Theidentification of E-selectin ligands within cancer tissue could yield newbiomarkers for patient stratification and aid in identifying novel therapeutictargets. The determinants of selectin ligands consist of sialylatedtetrasaccharides, the sialyl Lewis X and A (sLeX and sLeA), displayed on protein or lipid scaffolds. Standardized procedures for immunohistochemistry make use of the antibodies against sLeX and/or sLeA. However, antibody binding does notdefine E-selectin binding activity.METHODS: In this study, we developed an immunohistochemical staining technique,using E-selectin-human Ig Fc chimera (E-Ig) to characterize the expression andlocalization of E-selectin binding sites on paraffin-embedded sections ofdifferent cancer tissue.RESULTS: E-Ig successfully stained cancer cells with high specificity. The E-Igstaining show high reactivity scores in colon and lung adenocarcinoma andmoderate reactivity in triple negative breast cancer. Compared with reactivity ofantibody against sLeX/A, the E-Ig staining presented higher specificity to cancertissue with better defined borders and less background.CONCLUSIONS: The E-Ig staining technique allows the qualitative andsemi-quantitative analysis of E-selectin binding activity on cancer cells. Thedevelopment of accurate techniques for detection of selectin ligands maycontribute to better diagnostic and better understanding of the molecular basisof tumor progression and metastasis.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4410-x PMCID: PMC5930952PMID: 29716546 