70. PLoS One. 2018 May 2;13(5):e0196854. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0196854.eCollection 2018.First evidence of SGPL1 expression in the cell membrane silencing theextracellular S1P siren in mammary epithelial cells.Engel N(1)(2)(3), Adamus A(1)(2), Frank M(4), Kraft K(5), Kühn J(2)(6), MüllerP(2), Nebe B(2), Kasten A(3), Seitz G(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, University Hospital Marburg, Baldingerstraße,Marburg, Germany.(2)Department of Cell Biology, University Medicine Rostock, Schillingallee,Rostock, Germany.(3)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Facial Plastic Surgery, Rostock University Medical Center, Schillingallee, Rostock, Germany.(4)Medical Biology and Electron Microscopy Centre, University Medicine Rostock,Strempelstraße, Rostock, Germany.(5)Complementary Medicine, Center of Internal Medicine, University MedicineRostock, Ernst-Heydemann-Straße, Rostock, Germany.(6)Institute for Immunology, Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut, Federal ResearchInstitute for Animal Health, Südufer, Greifswald-Insel Riems, Germany.The bioactive lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) is a main regulator of cellsurvival, proliferation, motility, and platelet aggregation, and it is essential for angiogenesis and lymphocyte trafficking. In that S1P acts as a secondmessenger intra- and extracellularly, it might promote cancer progression. Themain cause is found in the high S1P concentration in the blood, which encouragecancer cells to migrate through the endothelial barrier into the blood vessels.The irreversible degradation of S1P is solely caused by thesphingosine-1-phosphate lyase (SGPL1). SGPL1 overexpression reduces cancer cellmigration and therefore silences the endogenous S1P siren, which promotes cancer cell attraction-the main reason for metastasis. Since our previous metabolomicsstudies revealed an increased SGPL1 activity in association with successfulbreast cancer cell treatment in vitro, we further investigated expression andlocalization of SGPL1. Expression analyses confirmed a very low SGPL1 expression in all breast cancer samples, regardless of their subtype. Additionally, we were able to prove a novel SGPL expression in the cytoplasm membrane ofnon-tumorigenic breast cells by fusing three independent methods. The generalSGPL1 downregulation and the loss of the plasma membrane expression resulted inS1P dependent stimulation of migration in the breast cancer cell lines MCF-7 and BT-20. Not only S1P stimulated migration could be repressed by overexpressing thenatural SGPL1 variant not but also more general migratory activity wassignificantly reduced. Here, for the first time, we report on the SGPL1 plasmamembrane location in human, non-malignant breast epithelial cell lines silencing the extracellular S1P siren in vitro, and thereby regulating pivotal cellularfunctions. Loss of this plasma membrane distribution as well as low SGPL1expression levels could be a potential prognostic marker and a viable target for therapy. Therefore, the precise role of SGPL1 for cancer treatment should beevaluated.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0196854 PMCID: PMC5931664PMID: 29718989  [Indexed for MEDLINE]