38. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2018 Apr 17;6:41. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2018.00041. eCollection2018.Microenvironment-Induced Non-sporadic Expression of the AXL and cKIT ReceptorsAre Related to Epithelial Plasticity and Drug Resistance.Jokela TA(1)(2), Engelsen AST(1)(3), Rybicka A(1), Pelissier Vatter FA(1), Garbe JC(4), Miyano M(2), Tiron C(5), Ferariu D(5), Akslen LA(3), Stampfer MR(4),Lorens JB(1)(3), LaBarge MA(2)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.(2)Department of Population Sciences, Center for Cancer and Aging, City of Hope, Duarte, CA, United States.(3)Centre for Cancer Biomarkers, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway.(4)Biological Systems and Engineering Division, Lawrence Berkeley NationalLaboratory, Berkeley, CA, United States.(5)Regional Institute of Oncology, Iasi, Romania.The existence of rare cancer cells that sporadically acquire drug-tolerancethrough epigenetic mechanisms is proposed as one mechanism that drives cancertherapy failure. Here we provide evidence that specific microenvironments impose non-sporadic expression of proteins related to epithelial plasticity and drugresistance. Microarrays of robotically printed combinatorial microenvironments ofknown composition were used to make cell-based functional associations betweenmicroenvironments, which were design-inspired by normal and tumor-burdened breasttissues, and cell phenotypes. We hypothesized that specific combinations ofmicroenvironment constituents non-sporadically impose the induction of the AXLand cKIT receptor tyrosine kinase proteins, which are known to be involved inepithelial plasticity and drug-tolerance, in an isogenic human mammary epithelialcell (HMEC) malignant progression series. Dimension reduction analysis revealstype I collagen as a dominant feature, inducing expression of both markers inpre-stasis finite lifespan HMECs, and transformed non-malignant and malignantimmortal cell lines. Basement membrane-associated matrix proteins, laminin-111and type IV collagen, suppress AXL and cKIT expression in pre-stasis andnon-malignant cells. However, AXL and cKIT are not suppressed by laminin-111 inmalignant cells. General linear models identified key factors, osteopontin, IL-8,and type VIα3 collagen, which significantly upregulated AXL and cKIT, as well as a plasticity-related gene expression program that is often observed in stem cellsand in epithelial-to-mesenchymal-transition. These factors are co-located withAXL-expressing cells in situ in normal and breast cancer tissues, and associated with resistance to paclitaxel. A greater diversity of microenvironments inducedAXL and cKIT expression consistent with plasticity and drug-tolerant phenotypesin tumorigenic cells compared to normal or immortal cells, suggesting a reducedperception of microenvironment specificity in malignant cells.Microenvironment-imposed reprogramming could explain why resistant cells areseemingly persistent and rapidly adaptable to multiple classes of drugs. Theseresults support the notion that specific microenvironments drive drug-tolerantcellular phenotypes and suggest a novel interventional avenue for preventingacquired therapy resistance.DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2018.00041 PMCID: PMC5913284PMID: 29719832 