102. BMC Cancer. 2018 May 2;18(1):492. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4417-3.Characteristics of patients with missing information on stage: a population-basedstudy of patients diagnosed with colon, lung or breast cancer in England in 2013.Di Girolamo C(1)(2), Walters S(3), Benitez Majano S(3), Rachet B(3), ColemanMP(3), Njagi EN(3), Morris M(3).Author information: (1)Cancer Survival Group, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health,Department of Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene &Tropical Medicine, Keppel St, London, WC1E 7HT, UK.chiara.digirolamo@lshtm.ac.uk.(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Alma Mater Studiorum - Universityof Bologna, Via Zamboni, 33 40126, Bologna, Italy. chiara.digirolamo@lshtm.ac.uk.(3)Cancer Survival Group, Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health,Department of Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene &Tropical Medicine, Keppel St, London, WC1E 7HT, UK.BACKGROUND: Stage is a key predictor of cancer survival. Complete cancer staging is vital for understanding outcomes at population level and monitoring theefficacy of early diagnosis initiatives. Cancer registries usually collectdetails of the disease extent but staging information may be missing because astage was never assigned to a patient or because it was not included in cancerregistration records. Missing stage information introduce methodologicaldifficulties for analysis and interpretation of results. We describe theassociations between missing stage and socio-demographic and clinicalcharacteristics of patients diagnosed with colon, lung or breast cancer inEngland in 2013. We assess how these associations change when completeness ishigh, and administrative issues are assumed to be minimal. We estimate the amountof avoidable missing stage data if high levels of completeness reached by someClinical Commissioning Groups (CCGs), were achieved nationally.METHODS: Individual cancer records were retrieved from the National CancerRegistration and linked to the Routes to Diagnosis and Hospital EpisodeStatistics datasets to obtain additional clinical information. We usedmultivariable beta binomial regression models to estimate the strength of theassociation between socio-demographic and clinical characteristics of patientsand missing stage and to derive the amount of avoidable missing stage.RESULTS: Multivariable modelling showed that old age was associated with missing stage irrespective of the cancer site and independent of comorbidity score,short-term mortality and patient characteristics. This remained true for patientsin the CCGs with high completeness. Applying the results from these CCGs to thewhole cohort showed that approximately 70% of missing stage information waspotentially avoidable.CONCLUSIONS: Missing stage was more frequent in older patients, including thoseresiding in CCGs with high completeness. This disadvantage for older patients wasnot explained fully by the presence of comorbidity. A substantial gain incompleteness could have been achieved if administrative practices were improvedto the level of the highest performing areas. Reasons for missing stageinformation should be carefully assessed before any study, and potentialdistortions introduced by how missing stage is handled should be considered inorder to draw the most correct inference from available statistics.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4417-3 PMCID: PMC5930770PMID: 29716543 