80. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2018 Apr 30. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djy042. [Epub ahead of print]Potential Benefit of Intra-operative Administration of Ketorolac on Breast CancerRecurrence According to the Patient's Body Mass Index.Desmedt C(1), Demicheli R(2), Fornili M(2), Bachir I(3), Duca M(3), VigliettiG(1), Berlière M(4), Piccart M(5), Sotiriou C(1), Sosnowski M(3), Forget P(6),Biganzoli E(2).Author information: (1)Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory, Université Libre deBruxelles, Institut Jules Bordet, Brussels, Belgium.(2)Unit of Medical Statistics, Biometry and Bioinformatics "Giulio A. Maccacaro,"Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan, CampusCascina Rosa, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan, Italy.(3)Department of Anesthesiology, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Institut JulesBordet, Brussels, Belgium.(4)Clinique du Sein, Institut Roi Albert 2, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc,Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.(5)Department of Medical Oncology, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Institut Jules Bordet, Brussels, Belgium.(6)Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine, Vrije Universiteit Brussel,Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel (UZ Brussel), 1090 Brussels, Belgium.Background: Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are currently used insome countries as analgesics in primary cancer surgery. Retrospective studiessuggest that NSAIDs could reduce breast cancer recurrences. Because NSAIDs alsoact on biological mechanisms present in patients with increased adiposity, weaimed at assessing whether the intra-operative administration of ketorolac ordiclofenac would be associated with a reduction of recurrence in patients withelevated body mass index (BMI).Methods: We considered two institutional retrospective series of 827 and 1007patients evaluating the administration of ketorolac (n = 529 with, n = 298without) or diclofenac (n = 787 with, n = 220 without). The BMI subgroups weredefined as less than 25 kg/m2 (lean) and 25 or more kg/m2 (overweight and obese).Cumulative incidence estimation of distant metastases as well as Fine-Gray andDixon-Simon models was used. These analyses were adjusted forclinico-pathological variables. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: The administration of ketorolac was statistically significantlyassociated with decreased incidence of distant recurrences (adjusted hazard ratio[aHR]= 0.59, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.37 to 0.96, P = .03). Inparticular, the association was evident in the high-body mass index (BMI) groupof patients (aHR = 0.55, 95% CI = 0.31 to 0.96, P = .04). The administration ofdiclofenac was not statistically significantly associated with decreasedincidence of distant recurrences, either in the global population or in the BMIsubgroups.Conclusions: These results show that the intra-operative administration ofketorolac, but not diclofenac, is statistically significantly associated with areduction of distant recurrences in patients with increased BMI. Altogether, thisstudy points to a potentially important repositioning of ketorolac in theintra-operative treatment of patients with elevated BMI that, if prospectivelyvalidated, might be as impactful as and cheaper than adjuvant systemic anticancertherapies.DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djy042 PMID: 29718396 