67. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2018 Jun 18;501(1):286-292. doi:10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.05.001. Epub 2018 May 7.Designing an effective drug combination for ER stress loading in cancer therapyusing a real-time monitoring system.Kazama H(1), Hiramoto M(1), Miyahara K(2), Takano N(1), Miyazawa K(3).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, Tokyo Medical Univeristy, Tokyo, Japan.(2)Department of Breast Oncology and Surgery, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo,Japan.(3)Department of Biochemistry, Tokyo Medical Univeristy, Tokyo, Japan. Electronicaddress: miyazawa@tokyo-med.ac.jp.Excess stress caused by accumulation of misfolded proteins inside the endoplasmicreticulum (ER) lumen can cause cells to undergo apoptosis. Misfolded proteinsexported from ER to cytoplasm are ubiquitinated and mostly degraded by theproteasome, but can also be destroyed by autophagy mediated by the dockingproteins p62 and NBR1. When misfolded proteins accumulate beyond the capacity of these clearance systems, they are transported to the microtubule organizationcenter to form aggresomes, which are also degraded by autophagy. Together, these phenomena suggest the existence of a coordinated intracellular network for copingwith the accumulation of misfolded proteins. Thus, rational inhibition of thisnetwork system might enhance killing of cancer cells subjected to pronounced ERstress loading. Based on this rationale, we sought to establish a quantitativeassay for monitoring ER stress loading. MDA-MB231 cells stably transfected withthe ERAI-Venus vector exhibited a strong XBP1 splicing signal in response to ERstress. Using the IncuCyte cell imaging system, we monitored the fluorescenceintensity of XBP1-Venus, normalized against cell density, as an ER stressindicator. This parameter correlated closely with other reporters of unfoldedprotein responses. Assessment of the XBP1-Venus signal during exposure to variousdrug combinations revealed that simultaneous inhibition of the proteasome,autophagy, and aggresome formation led to more effective ER stress loading andhigher cytotoxicity than inhibition of only two components. Our data suggest thatthis monitoring system is a useful tool for designing effective drug combinationsfor ER stress loading in cancer therapy.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.05.001 PMID: 29729272 