Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: A portion of this work waspresented at the 2016 World Molecular Imaging Congress, held in New York. L.J. R was a recipient of a Vevo Travel Award from FujiFilm VisualSonics that providepartial support for his attendance at the meeting. The remaining authors do nothave any conflicts of interest to disclose. The funding sponsors had no role inthe design of the study, collection, analyses, or interpretation of data, writingof the manuscript, and in the decision to publish the results.13. J Cancer. 2018 Apr 6;9(8):1437-1447. doi: 10.7150/jca.23969. eCollection 2018.International Consensus on the Clinical Management of Inflammatory Breast Cancer from the Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program 10thAnniversary Conference.Ueno NT(1), Espinosa Fernandez JR(1), Cristofanilli M(2), Overmoyer B(3), ReaD(4), Berdichevski F(4), El-Shinawi M(5), Bellon J(6), Le-Petross HT(7), LucciA(1), Babiera G(1), DeSnyder SM(1), Teshome M(1), Chang E(1), Lim B(1),Krishnamurthy S(1), Stauder MC(1), Parmar S(6), Mohamed MM(7), Alexander A(1),Valero V(1), Woodward WA(1).Author information: (1)Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic, TheUniversity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, Robert H LurieComprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, USA.(3)Susan F. Smith Center for Women's Cancers, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(4)School of Cancer Sciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham,UK.(5)Department of General Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Ain Shams University,Cairo, Egypt.(6)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation and Cellular Therapy, The Universityof Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(7)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.National and international experts in inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) fromhigh-volume centers treating IBC recently convened at the 10th AnniversaryConference of the Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program at TheUniversity of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston Texas. A consensus onthe clinical management of patients with IBC was discussed, summarized, andsubsequently reviewed. All participants at the conference (patients, advocates,researchers, trainees, and clinicians) were queried using the MDRing electronicsurvey on key management issues. A summary of the expert consensus andparticipant voting is presented. Bilateral breast and nodal evaluation, breastmagnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography/computed tomography, andmedical photographs were endorsed as optimal. Neoadjuvant systemic therapy,modified radical mastectomy and level I and II ipsilateral axillary nodedissection, post-mastectomy radiotherapy, adjuvant targeted therapy and hormonal therapy as indicated, and delayed reconstruction were agreed-upon fundamentalpremises of standard non-protocol-based treatment for IBC. Consideration forlocal-regional therapy in de novo stage IV IBC was endorsed to provide localcontrol whenever feasible. Variation across centers and special circumstanceswere discussed.DOI: 10.7150/jca.23969 PMCID: PMC5929089PMID: 29721054 