Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST None.200. Oncotarget. 2018 Apr 10;9(27):19415-19426. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.24767.eCollection 2018 Apr 10.Anabolic androgenic steroids and carcinogenicity focusing on Leydig cell: aliterature review.Salerno M(1), Cascio O(2), Bertozzi G(1), Sessa F(1), Messina A(3), Monda V(3),Cipolloni L(4), Biondi A(5), Daniele A(6), Pomara C(2).Author information: (1)University of Foggia, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,Foggia, Italy.(2)University of Catania, Department of Medical, Surgical and AdvancedTechnologies, "G.F. Ingrassia", Catania, Italy.(3)University of Campania "L. Vanvitelli", Department of Experimental Medicine,Naples, Italy.(4)Università degli Studi di Roma "La Sapienza", Department of Public Health,Roma, Italy.(5)University of Catania, Department of Surgery, Catania, Italy.(6)University of Campania "L. Vanvitelli", CEINGE Biotecnologie Avanzate S.C. ar.l., Naples, Italy.Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) are some of the most common drugs used amongathletes, frequently in combination with resistance training, to improve physicalperformance or for aesthetic purpose. A great number of scientific reports showedthe detrimental effects of anabolic androgenic steroids on different organs andtissues. In this literature review, we analyzed the AAS-mediated carcinogenicity,focusing on Leydig cell tumor. AAS-induced carcinogenicity can affect DNAtranscription through two pathways. It can act directly via the androgenreceptor, by means of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) produced by the action of5-a-reductase. It can also work through the estrogen receptor, by means ofestradiol produced by CYP19 aromatase. In addition, nandrolone and stanazolol canactivate the PI3K/AKT and PLC/PKC pathways via IGF-1. This would result in cellproliferation in Leydig cell cancer, or magnify cyclin D1 concentration inducing breast cell proliferation. AAS abuse is becoming a serious public health concern in view of the severe health consequences secondary to AAS abuse. The negativerole of AAS in supraphysiological dosage impairs the expression of enzymesinvolved in testosterone biosynthesis. Abnormal synthesis of testosterone playshas a negative effect on the hormonal changes/regulation, and might be involvedin certain carcinogenic mechanisms. At the light of this review, it could become very interesting to perform an information campaign more strengthened in gyms andschools in order to prevent male fertility impairment and other tissues damage.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.24767 PMCID: PMC5922407PMID: 29721213 