146. Hum Gene Ther. 2018 May 3. doi: 10.1089/hum.2018.025. [Epub ahead of print]External Beam Radiation Therapy Enhances Mesenchymal Stem Cell-MediatedSodium-Iodide Symporter Gene Delivery.Schug C(1), Sievert W(2), Urnauer S(1), Müller AM(1), Schmohl KA(1),Wechselberger A(3), Schwenk N(1), Lauber K(4), Schwaiger M(5), Multhoff G(2),Wagner E(6), Nelson PJ(3), Spitzweg C(1).Author information: (1)1 Department of Internal Medicine IV, University Hospital of Munich , LMUMunich, Munich, Germany .(2)2 Department of Radiation Oncology, Technische Universitaet Muenchen , Munich,Germany .(3)3 Clinical Biochemistry Group, Department of Internal Medicine IV, University Hospital of Munich , LMU Munich, Munich, Germany .(4)4 Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital of Munich , LMUMunich, Munich, Germany .(5)5 Department of Nuclear Medicine, Klinikum rechts der Isar, TechnischeUniversitaet Muenchen , Munich, Germany .(6)6 Department of Pharmacy, Center of Drug Research, PharmaceuticalBiotechnology, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany .The tumor-homing properties of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) have led to theirdevelopment as delivery vehicles for the targeted delivery of therapeutic genessuch as the sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) to solid tumors. External beamradiation therapy may represent an ideal setting for the application ofengineered MSC-based gene therapy, as tumor irradiation may enhance MSCrecruitment into irradiated tumors through the increased production of selectfactors linked to MSC migration. In the present study, the irradiation of humanliver cancer cells (HuH7; 1-10 Gy) showed a strong dose-dependent increase insteady-state mRNA levels of CXCL8, CXCL12, FGF2, PDGFB, TGFB1, THBS1, and VEGF(0-48 h), which was verified for most factors at the protein level (after 48 h). Radiation effects on directed MSC migration were tested in vitro using a livecell tracking migration assay and supernatants from control and irradiated HuH7cells. A robust increase in mean forward migration index, mean center of mass,and mean directionality of MSCs toward supernatants was seen from irradiated ascompared to non-irradiated tumor cells. Transferability of this effect to othertumor sources was demonstrated using the human breast adenocarcinoma cell line(MDA-MB-231), which showed a similar behavior to radiation as seen with HuH7cells in quantitative polymerase chain reaction and migration assay. To evaluate this in a more physiologic in vivo setting, subcutaneously growing HuH7 xenografttumors were irradiated with 0, 2, or 5 Gy followed by CMV-NIS-MSC application24 h later. Tumoral iodide uptake was monitored using 123I-scintigraphy. Theresults showed increased tumor-specific dose-dependent accumulation ofradioiodide in irradiated tumors. The results demonstrate that external beamradiation therapy enhances the migratory capacity of MSCs and may thus increasethe therapeutic efficacy of MSC-mediated NIS radionuclide therapy.DOI: 10.1089/hum.2018.025 PMID: 29724129 