Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.19. Indian J Anaesth. 2018 Apr;62(4):254-262. doi: 10.4103/ija.IJA_46_18.Newer regional analgesia interventions (fascial plane blocks) for breastsurgeries: Review of literature.Garg R(1), Bhan S(1), Vig S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Onco-Anaesthesiology and Palliative Medicine, Dr BRAIRCH, AllIndia Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.Surgical resection of the primary tumour with axillary dissection is one of themain modalities of breast cancer treatment. Regional blocks have been considered as one of the modalities for effective perioperative pain control. With theadvent of ultrasound, newer interventions such as fascial plane blocks have been reported for perioperative analgesia in breast surgeries. Our aim is to reviewthe literature for fascial plane blocks for analgesia in breast surgeries. Theresearch question for initiating the review was 'What are the reported newerregional anaesthesia techniques (fascial plane blocks) for female patientsundergoing breast surgery and their analgesic efficacy?.' The participants,intervention, comparisons, outcomes and study design were followed. Due to thepaucity of similar studies and heterogeneity, the assessment of bias, systematic review or pooled analysis/meta-analysis was not feasible. Of the 989 manuscripts,the present review included 28 manuscripts inclusive of all types of publishedmanuscripts. 15 manuscripts directly related to the administration of fascialplane blocks for breast surgery across all type of study designs and cases werereviewed for the utility of fascial plane blocks in breast surgeries.Interfascial blocks score over regional anaesthetic techniques such asparavertebral block as they have no risk of sympathetic blockade, intrathecal or epidural spread which may lead to haemodynamic instability and prolonged hospitalstay. This review observed that no block effectively covers the whole of breastand axilla, thus a combination of blocks should be used depending on the site of incision and extent of surgical resection.DOI: 10.4103/ija.IJA_46_18 PMCID: PMC5907430PMID: 29720750 