58. Acad Radiol. 2018 May;25(5):547-551. doi: 10.1016/j.acra.2017.05.021.Addressing Potential Health Disparities in the Adoption of Advanced BreastImaging Technologies.Miles RC(1), Onega T(2), Lee CI(3).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit St, Boston, MA 02114. Electronic address: rmiles@partners.org.(2)Departments of Medicine and Community & Family Medicine, Dartmouth Institutefor Health Policy & Clinical Practice, Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Geisel Schoolof Medicine, Lebanon, New Hampshire.(3)Department of Radiology, University of Washington School of Medicine,Department of Health Services, University of Washington School of Public Health, Hutchinson Institute for Cancer Outcomes Research, Seattle, Washington.With the advent of new screening technologies, including digital breasttomosynthesis, screening ultrasound, and breast magnetic resonance imaging, thereis growing concern that existing disparities among traditionally underservedpopulations will worsen. These newer screening modalities purport improved cancerdetection over mammography alone but are not offered at all screening facilities and often require a larger co-pay or out-of-pocket expense. Thus, the potentialfor worsening disparities with regard to access and appropriate utilization ofsupplemental screening technologies exists. Currently, there is a dearth ofliterature on the topic of health disparities related to access and the use ofsupplemental breast cancer screening and their impact on outcomes. Identifyingand addressing explanatory factors for persistent and potentially worseningdisparities remain a central focus of efforts to improve equity in breast cancer care. Therefore, this paper provides an overview of factors that may contributeto present and future disparities in breast cancer screening and outcomes, andexplores specific relevant topics requiring greater research efforts as morepersonalized, multimodality breast cancer screening approaches are adopted intoclinical practice.Copyright © 2018 The Association of University Radiologists. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.acra.2017.05.021 PMID: 29729855 