168. Histopathology. 2018 May 2. doi: 10.1111/his.13642. [Epub ahead of print]Breast cancer intratumour heterogeneity: current status and clinicalimplications.Joseph C(1), Papadaki A(2), Althobiti M(1), Alsaleem M(1), Aleskandarany MA(1),Rakha EA(1)(3).Author information: (1)Academic Pathology, Division of Cancer and Stem Cells, School of Medicine,University of Nottingham, Nottingham City Hospital, Nottingham, UK.(2)Leicester Royal Infirmary, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust,Leicester, UK.(3)Cellular Pathology, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK.Breast cancer (BC) is a heterogeneous disease that varies in presentation,morphological features, behaviour, and response to therapy. High-throughputmolecular profiling studies have revolutionised our understanding of BCheterogeneity, and have demonstrated that molecular profiles of tumours arevariable not only between tumours, but also within individual tumours. Currentevidence indicates that spatial and temporal intratumour heterogeneity of BCexists at levels beyond what are commonly expected. Intratumour heterogeneityposes critical challenges in the diagnosis, prediction of behaviour andmanagement of BC. For instance, heterogeneous expression of oestrogen receptor,progesterone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 can be seennot only in primary tumours between different regions, but also between primarytumours and their corresponding metastatic/recurrent lesions. The demonstrationof molecularly distinct subclones within individual tumours may explain, at leastin part, the mechanisms controlling the variable behaviour of BC, and may change our approach to BC sampling and treatment. In this review, BC intratumourheterogeneity is highlighted, with a special emphasis on the current knowledgepertaining to the relationship between intratumour heterogeneity and BCpathogenesis, evolution, and progression, with consideration of its impact ondisease diagnosis, management, and the emergence of novel therapeutic targets.The key role of high-throughput molecular and imaging techniques is alsoaddressed.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/his.13642 PMID: 29722058 