Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declaredthat no competing interest exists.12. Theranostics. 2018 Mar 6;8(8):2064-2078. doi: 10.7150/thno.21708. eCollection2018.Photoacoustic Imaging as an Early Biomarker of Radio Therapeutic Efficacy in Headand Neck Cancer.Rich LJ(1)(2), Miller A(3), Singh AK(4), Seshadri M(1)(2)(5).Author information: (1)Laboratory for Translational Imaging, Department of Molecular and CellularBiophysics and Biochemistry, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York14263.(2)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Roswell Park Cancer Institute,Buffalo, New York 14263.(3)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Roswell Park Cancer Institute,Buffalo, New York 14263.(4)Department of Radiation Medicine, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York 14263.(5)Department of Dentistry and Maxillofacial Prosthetics, Roswell Park CancerInstitute, Buffalo, New York 14263.The negative impact of tumor hypoxia on radiotherapeutic efficacy is wellrecognized. However, an easy to use, reliable imaging method for assessment oftumor oxygenation in routine clinical practice remains elusive. Photoacousticimaging (PAI) is a relatively new imaging technique that utilizes a combinationof light and ultrasound (US) to enable functional imaging of tumor hemodynamiccharacteristics in vivo. Several clinical trials are currently evaluating theutility of PAI in cancer detection for breast, thyroid, and prostate cancer.Here, we evaluated the potential of PAI for rapid, label-free, non-invasivequantification of tumor oxygenation as a biomarker of radiation response in head and neck cancer. Methods: Studies were performed human papilloma virus- positive (HPV+) and -negative (HPV-) patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of head andneck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). PAI was utilized for longitudinalassessment of tumor hemodynamics (oxygenation saturation and hemoglobinconcentration) before, during and after fractionated radiation therapy (fRT).Imaging datasets were correlated with histologic measures of vascularity (CD31), DNA damage (phosphorylated γH2AX) and statistical modeling of tumor growth.Results: A differential response to fRT was observed between HPV+ and HPV-xenografts. Temporal changes in tumor hemodynamics (oxygen saturation andhemoglobin concentration) measured by PAI showed significant association withtreatment outcomes. PAI-based changes in oxygen saturation were detected withindays after initiation of fRT prior to detectable change in tumor volume,highlighting the potential of PAI to serve as an early biomarker of therapeuticefficacy. Consistent with PAI results, immunohistochemical staining ofvascularity (CD31) and DNA damage (phosphorylated γH2AX) revealed distinctpatterns of response in HPV+ and HPV- xenografts. Conclusion: Collectively, ourobservations demonstrate the utility of PAI for temporal mapping of tumorhemodynamics and the value of PAI read-outs as surrogate measures of radiationresponse in HNSCC.DOI: 10.7150/thno.21708 PMCID: PMC5928871PMID: 29721063 