145. J Am Coll Radiol. 2018 May;15(5S):S13-S25. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2018.03.009.ACR Appropriateness Criteria® Breast Implant Evaluation.Expert Panel on Breast Imaging:, Lourenco AP(1), Moy L(2), Baron P(3), DidwaniaAD(4), diFlorio RM(5), Heller SL(6), Holbrook AI(7), Lewin AA(6), Mehta TS(8),Niell BL(9), Slanetz PJ(8), Stuckey AR(10), Tuscano DS(11), Vincoff NS(12),Weinstein SP(13), Newell MS(14).Author information: (1)Principal Author, Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RhodeIsland. Electronic address: alourenco@lifespan.org.(2)Panel Vice-Chair, NYU Clinical Cancer Center, New York, New York.(3)Roper St. Francis Physician Partners Breast Surgery, Charleston, SouthCarolina; American College of Surgeons.(4)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois;American College of Physicians.(5)Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire.(6)New York University School of Medicine, New York, New York.(7)Emory University Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia.(8)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.(9)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, Florida.(10)Women and Infants Hospital, Providence, Rhode Island; American Congress ofObstetricians and Gynecologists.(11)Medford Radiology Group PC, Medford, Oregon.(12)Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, Manhasset,New York.(13)Perelman School of Medicine of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.(14)Panel Chair, Emory University Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia.Breast implant imaging varies depending on patient age, implant type, andsymptoms. For asymptomatic patients (any age, any implant), imaging is notrecommended. Rupture of saline implants is often clinically evident, as thesaline is resorbed and there is a change in breast contour. With saline implants and equivocal clinical findings, ultrasound (US) is the examination of choice forpatients less than 30 years of age, either mammography/digital breasttomosynthesis or US may be used for those 30 to 39 years of age, andmammography/digital breast tomosynthesis is used for those 40 years and older.For patients with suspected silicone implant complication, MRI without contrastor US is used for those less than 30 years of age; MRI without contrast,mammography/digital breast tomosynthesis, or US may be used for those 30 to 39years of age; and MRI without contrast or mammography/digital breasttomosynthesis is used for those 40 years and older. Patients with unexplainedaxillary adenopathy and silicone implants (current or prior) are evaluated withaxillary US. For patients 30 years and older, mammography/digital breasttomosynthesis is performed in conjunction with US. Last, patients with suspected breast implant-associated anaplastic large-cell lymphoma are first evaluated withUS, regardless of age or implant type. The American College of RadiologyAppropriateness Criteria are evidence-based guidelines for specific clinicalconditions that are reviewed annually by a multidisciplinary expert panel. Theguideline development and revision include an extensive analysis of currentmedical literature from peer reviewed journals and the application ofwell-established methodologies (RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method and Grading ofRecommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation or GRADE) to rate theappropriateness of imaging and treatment procedures for specific clinicalscenarios. In those instances where evidence is lacking or equivocal, expertopinion may supplement the available evidence to recommend imaging or treatment.Copyright © 2018 American College of Radiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. Allrights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2018.03.009 PMID: 29724416 