169. Breast Cancer. 2018 May 2. doi: 10.1007/s12282-018-0862-8. [Epub ahead of print]Life quality of patients who underwent breast reconstruction after prophylacticmastectomy: systematic review.Aygin D(1), Cengiz H(2).Author information: (1)Division of Nursing, Department of Surgical Nursing, Faculty of HealthSciences, Sakarya University, Sakarya, Turkey.(2)Division of Nursing, Department of Surgical Nursing, Faculty of HealthSciences, Sakarya University, Sakarya, Turkey. hande@sakarya.edu.tr.BACKGROUND: Prophylactic mastectomy is used to reduce the incidence of breastcancer in women with genetic predisposition and family history of breast cancer, and the rate of application is increased nowadays. Chronic pain, body image, and sexuality may negatively affect quality of life, while patients generally haveincreased quality of life and satisfaction after prophylactic mastectomy. The aimof this study is the evaluation of the results of the studies about quality oflife of patients who underwent breast reconstruction after prophylacticmastectomy.METHODS: For the 1996-2016 literature, we searched the databases of Scopus,Science Direct, PubMed, EBSCO, Cochrane, Medline Complete, Ovid, Springer Link,Google Academic, Taylor & Francis, PsychINFO databases. For the gray literature, National Thesis Center and ULAKBIM databases were searched. Seven studiescomplying with the criteria were included in the review.RESULTS: Seven studies included in this study aimed to investigate the effect of prophylactic mastectomy on breast pain, numbness, sexuality and quality of life. When the studies were reviewed, we were found that the majority of the patientswere satisfied with the results of the procedure, although the body imageperception and pain/ movement/ perception and sexual problems were experiencedafter the breast surgery.CONCLUSIONS: While overall satisfaction with cosmetic results was high, mostwomen were not satisfied with the softness of the reconstructed breasts, and had problems with breast hardness, numbness and sex. Therefore, it is very important to inform the patients about the complications that may develop after theoperation, while there is not enough data about the importance of informing thepatients before the operation.DOI: 10.1007/s12282-018-0862-8 PMID: 29721811 