66. Cancer Lett. 2018 Aug 28;430:123-132. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.04.037. Epub2018 May 3.Cyclin E overexpression confers resistance to the CDK4/6 specific inhibitorpalbociclib in gastric cancer cells.Min A(1), Kim JE(2), Kim YJ(2), Lim JM(2), Kim S(2), Kim JW(3), Lee KH(4), KimTY(5), Oh DY(4), Bang YJ(5), Im SA(6).Author information: (1)Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National University, South Korea; Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, South Korea.(2)Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National University, South Korea.(3)Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National University, South Korea;Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul,South Korea; Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University BundangHospital, Seongnam, South Korea.(4)Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National University, South Korea; Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, South Korea; Departmentof Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, South Korea;Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul,South Korea.(5)Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National University, South Korea; Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, South Korea; Departmentof Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, South Korea.(6)Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National University, South Korea; Biomedical Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, South Korea; Departmentof Internal Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, South Korea;Translational Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul,South Korea. Electronic address: moisa@snu.ac.kr.Palbociclib is a specific inhibitor of CDK4/6 and has been shown to provide asurvival benefit in hormone receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. TCGAdatabase reported that about half of gastric cancers exhibit abnormalities incell-cycle-related molecules, suggesting that gastric cancer is a good candidate for palbociclib treatment; however, the antitumor effects and predictive markers of palbociclib in gastric cancer remain incompletely described. Herein, theeffect and predictive markers of palbociclib on gastric cancer cells wereinvestigated. Our results reveal that palbociclib showed anti-proliferativeeffects by inducing G1 phase cell-cycle arrest and cellular senescence in somegastric cancer cells. Basal protein expression level of cyclin E showed aninverse correlation of cancer cell sensitivity to palbociclib. In addition,palbociclib enhanced the antitumor effect of 5-FU in vitro and in vivo bymodulating thymidine synthase expression. These results suggest that cyclin Eprotein expression determines the anti-proliferative effect of palbociclib, andpalbociclib acts synergistically with 5-FU in gastric cancer. These findingsprovide a rationale for future clinical trials of palbociclib and 5-FUcombination-based chemotherapy in gastric cancer.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.04.037 PMID: 29729292 