9. Theranostics. 2018 Apr 3;8(9):2549-2564. doi: 10.7150/thno.22523. eCollection2018.CAPG enhances breast cancer metastasis by competing with PRMT5 to modulate STC-1 transcription.Huang S(1)(2), Chi Y(1), Qin Y(3), Wang Z(4), Xiu B(1), Su Y(1), Guo R(1), GuoL(1), Sun H(1), Zeng C(1), Zhou S(5), Hu X(1), Liu S(6), Shao Z(1), Wu Z(7), Jin W(1), Wu J(1).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Surgery, Breast Cancer Institute, Shanghai Cancer Center,Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai,People's Republic of China.(2)The Second Department of Breast Surgery, The Third Affiliated Hospital ofKunming Medical University (Tumor Hospital of Yunnan Province), Kunming, Yunnan, People's Republic of China.(3)Department of Pancreas & Hepatobiliary Surgery, Pancreas & HepatobiliaryCancer Institute, Shanghai Cancer Center, Department of Oncology, ShanghaiMedical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.(4)Cancer Institute, Shanghai Cancer Center, Department of Oncology, ShanghaiMedical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.(5)Department of Pathology, Shanghai Cancer Center, Fudan University, Shanghai,People's Republic of China.(6)Department of Breast Surgery and Pharmacology Laboratory of TraditionalChinese Medicine, Long Hua Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional ChineseMedicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.(7)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine; Center for Cancer Research,University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, Tennessee.Macrophage-capping protein (CAPG) has been shown to promote cancer cellmetastasis, although the mechanism remains poorly understood. Methods: Breastcancer (BC) tissue microarray was used to test the role of CAPG in the prognosis of BC patients. Xenograft mice model was used to validate the metastasispromotion role of CAPG in vivo. Gene expression array, chromatinimmunoprecipitation and luciferase report assay were performed to search for the target genes of CAPG. Protein immunoprecipitation, MS/MS analysis, tissuemicroarray and histone methyltransferase assay were used to explore the mechanismof CAPG regulating stanniocalcin 1 (STC-1) transcription. Results: We demonstratea novel mechanism by which CAPG enhances BC metastasis via promoting thetranscription of the pro-metastatic gene STC-1, contributing to increasedmetastasis in BC. Mechanistically, CAPG competes with the transcriptionalrepressor arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) for binding to the STC-1 promoter,leading to reduced histone H4R3 methylation and enhanced STC-1 transcription. Ourstudy also indicates that both CAPG and PRMT5 are independent prognostic factors for BC patient survival. High CAPG level is associated with poor survival, while high PRMT5 expression favors a better prognosis in BC patients. Conclusion: Ourfindings identify a novel role of CAPG in the promotion of BC metastasis byepigenetically enhancing STC-1 transcription.DOI: 10.7150/thno.22523 PMCID: PMC5928908PMID: 29721098 