162. Rev Med Brux. 2018;39(2):111-113. doi: 10.30637/2018.16-054.[Oligometastatic breast cancer : therapeutic implications of a new paradigm].[Article in French; Abstract available in French from the publisher]Méry B(1), Moriceau G(2), Vallard A(3), Jacquin JP(1), Magné N(3).Author information: (1)Département d'Oncologie médicale, Institut de Cancérologie Lucien Neuwirth.(2)Département de Cancérologie médicale, Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon.(3)Département de Radiothérapie, Institut de Cancérologie Lucien Neuwirth,Saint-Priest-en-Jarez, France.INTRODUCTION: Oligometastatic breast cancer incidence is recently increasingthanks to screening and imaging improvements. Unlike patients with metastaticdisease, a small number of oligometastatic patients may expect a definitiveremission, in case of aggressive management performed with intent to cure. Wereport the atypical evolution of an oligometastatic breast cancer patient, wholately relapsed with a different Her2 status.RESULTS: A 46 year old women was treated for an infiltrating duct breastcarcinoma, initially diagnosed with oligometastases and an Her2- negative status.Treatments were performed in intent to cure but the patient relapsed 5 yearslater with a solitary Her2-positive liver metastasis. The aggressive local andsystemic (using an anti- Her2 targeted therapy) management induced a stillcomplete remission at last follow-up.CONCLUSION: Prognosis of breast oligometastatic cancer is unpredictable, but anaggressive with intent-to-cure management may bring benefits to patients. Howeververy rare, the switch of Her2 status between initial diagnosis and relapsehighlights tumor heterogeneity, and the fact that a cell population featuringtargetable characteristics may appear due to anticancer drug induced-cellselection.Publisher: L’incidence des cancers du sein oligométastatiques est enaugmentation, grâce aux progrès du dépistage et de l’imagerie. Au contraire de lamaladie métastatique, un faible pourcentage de ces patientes peut espérer uneguérison définitive en cas de prise en charge menée en intention curative surtoutes les cibles. Nous rapportons le cas de l’évolution atypique d’une patiente oligométastatique, avec une récidive tardive d’un cancer du sein, auxcaractéristiques génétiques transformées. Résultats : Une patiente de 46 ans aété prise en charge initialement pour un adénocarcinome mammaire d’embléeoligo-métastatique ne surexprimant pas Her2. Après un traitement à viséecurative, la patiente a rechuté 5 ans plus tard avec une métastase hépatiqueunique, surexprimant Her2. La prise en charge locale curative et systémique avec une thérapie ciblant Her2 a permis la rémission complète persistante après 3 ans de suivi.Le pronostic de la maladie oligométastatique du sein doit être abordéavec prudence, mais un traitement réalisé en intention curative peut apporter un bénéfice aux patientes. Le changement de statut Her2 entre le diagnostic primitifet la récidive -fait très rare- souligne l’hétérogénéité de la populationtumorale, dont une fraction présentant des caractéristiques génétiquesparticulières peut émerger, sous la pression de sélection des droguesanticancéreuses.DOI: 10.30637/2018.16-054 PMID: 29722493 