Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declaredthat no competing interest exists.10. Theranostics. 2018 Mar 11;8(8):2278-2288. doi: 10.7150/thno.23544. eCollection2018.DNA Methylation Signatures Predicting Bevacizumab Efficacy in Metastatic BreastCancer.Gampenrieder SP(1), Rinnerthaler G(1), Hackl H(2), Pulverer W(3), WeinhaeuselA(3), Ilic S(3), Hufnagl C(4), Hauser-Kronberger C(4), Egle A(1), Risch A(5)(6), Greil R(1)(6).Author information: (1)III rd Medical Department with Hematology, Medical Oncology, Hemostaseology,Infectious Diseases and Rheumatology, Oncologic Center; Salzburg Cancer Research Institute (SCRI) with Laboratory of Immunological and Molecular Cancer Research(LIMCR) and Center for Clinical Cancer and Immunology Trials (CCCIT); Paracelsus Medical University Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.(2)Division of Bioinformatics, Biocenter, Medical University of Innsbruck,Innsbruck, Austria.(3)Center for Health & Bioresources, Business Unit for Molecular Diagnostics, AIT- Austrian Institute of Technology GmbH, Vienna, Austria.(4)Department of Pathology, Paracelsus Medical University Salzburg, Salzburg,Austria.(5)Division of Cancer Genetics/Epigenetics, Department of Molecular Biology,University of Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.(6)Cancer Cluster Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria.Background: Biomarkers predicting response to bevacizumab in breast cancer arestill missing. Since epigenetic modifications can contribute to an aberrantregulation of angiogenesis and treatment resistance, we investigated theinfluence of DNA methylation patterns on bevacizumab efficacy. Methods:Genome-wide methylation profiling using the Illumina Infinium HumanMethylation450BeadChip was performed in archival FFPE specimens of 36 patients withHER2-negative metastatic breast cancer treated with chemotherapy in combinationwith bevacizumab as first-line therapy (learning set). Based on objectiveresponse and progression-free survival (PFS) and considering ER expression,patients were divided in responders (R) and non-responders (NR). Significantlydifferentially methylated gene loci (CpGs) with a strong change in methylationlevels (Δβ>0.15 or Δβ<-0.15) between R and NR were identified and furtherinvestigated in 80 bevacizumab-treated breast cancer patients (optimization set) and in 15 patients treated with chemotherapy alone (control set) using targeteddeep amplicon bisulfite sequencing. Methylated gene loci were consideredpredictive if there was a significant association with outcome (PFS) in theoptimization set but not in the control set using Spearman rank correlation, Cox regression, and logrank test. Results: Differentially methylated loci in 48 geneswere identified, allowing a good separation between R and NR (odds ratio (OR)101, p<0.0001). Methylation of at least one cytosine in 26 gene-regions wassignificantly associated with progression-free survival (PFS) in the optimizationset, but not in the control set. Using information from the optimization set, thepanel was reduced to a 9-gene signature, which could divide patients from thelearning set into 2 clusters, thereby predicting response with an OR of 40(p<0.001) and an AUC of 0.91 (LOOCV). A further restricted 3-gene methylationmodel showed a significant association of predicted responders with longer PFS inthe learning and optimization set even in multivariate analysis with an excellentand good separation of R and NR with AUC=0.94 and AUC=0.86, respectively.Conclusion: Both a 9-gene and 3-gene methylation signature can discriminatebetween R and NR to a bevacizumab-based therapy in MBC and could help identifypatients deriving greater benefit from bevacizumab.DOI: 10.7150/thno.23544 PMCID: PMC5928889PMID: 29721079 