Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declaredthat no competing interest exists.15. J Cancer. 2018 Apr 6;9(8):1357-1364. doi: 10.7150/jca.22427. eCollection 2018.Anti-Cervical Cancer Role of Matrine, Oxymatrine and Sophora Flavescens Alkaloid Gels and its Mechanism.Zhou YJ(1), Guo YJ(1), Yang XL(1), Ou ZL(1).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer in Shanghai, Breast Cancer Institute, FudanUniversity Shanghai Cancer Center, Department of Oncology, Shanghai MedicalCollege, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.Background: Cervical cancer is one of the leading severe malignancies throughout the world. Sophra flavescens alkaloid (SFA) gels, a compound Traditional Chinese Medicine, has been clinically used in China for many years. Its individual activeingredients are matrine and oxymatrine, which has been showed that they canrestrain primary tumorigenesis, while the underlying molecular mechanisms of SFA gels in cervical cancer cells remain unclear. Methods: To detect the effect ofSFA gels and its active ingredients, CCK-8 assay and colony assay were used oncervical cancer cells proliferation. Transwell assay was used to detect cancercell migration. Apoptosis and cell cycle arrest were used to detect whether SFAgels effect the cervical cancer cells proliferation. Western blot was used todetect whether SFA gels regulate the cervical cancer cells via the suppression ofAKT/mTOR signaling pathway. Results: SFA gels can restrain cervical cancer cellproliferation, inhibit metastasis, induce cell cycle arrest in G2/M phase, inducecellular apoptosis through stimulation of Bax and E-cadherin, and suppression of Bcl-2, cyclin A, MMP2. Further study shows that SFA gels may regulate thecervical cancer cells via the suppression of AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.Conclusions: SFA gels, like its active ingredients, can restrain cervical cancer cells proliferation, suppress cervical cancer cell migration, induce theapoptosis and cell cycle arrest in cervical cancer cells. SFA gels may be apotential anti-tumor therapeutic agent for treating cervical cancer.DOI: 10.7150/jca.22427 PMCID: PMC5929079PMID: 29721044 