80. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2018 Jul;160:75-83. doi:10.1016/j.cmpb.2018.03.026. Epub 2018 Mar 31.False-positive reduction in computer-aided mass detection using mammographictexture analysis and classification.Dhahbi S(1), Barhoumi W(2), Kurek J(3), Swiderski B(4), Kruk M(5), Zagrouba E(6).Author information: (1)Université de Tunis El Manar, Institut Supérieur d'Informatique, Research Teamon Intelligent Systems in imaging and Artificial Vision (SIIVA), Laboratoire derecherche en Informatique, Modélisation et Traitement de l'Information et de laConnaissance (LIMTIC), 2Rue Abou Raihane Bayrouni, Ariana 2080, Tunisia;Université de Monastir, Faculté de Sciences de Monastir, Avenue EnvironnementMonastir 5019, Tunisia. Electronic address: sami.dhahbi@laposte.net.(2)Université de Tunis El Manar, Institut Supérieur d'Informatique, Research Teamon Intelligent Systems in imaging and Artificial Vision (SIIVA), Laboratoire derecherche en Informatique, Modélisation et Traitement de l'Information et de laConnaissance (LIMTIC), 2Rue Abou Raihane Bayrouni, Ariana 2080, Tunisia;Université de Carthage, Ecole Nationale d'Ingénieurs de Carthage, 45 Rue desEntrepreneurs, 2035 Charguia II, Tunis-Carthage, Tunisia. Electronic address:walid.barhoumi@enicarthage.rnu.tn.(3)The Faculty of Applied Informatics and Mathematics, Warsaw University of Life Sciences, 166 Nowoursynowska Street, Warsaw 02-787, Poland. Electronic address:jaroslaw_kurek@sggw.pl.(4)The Faculty of Applied Informatics and Mathematics, Warsaw University of Life Sciences, 166 Nowoursynowska Street, Warsaw 02-787, Poland. Electronic address:bartosz_swiderski@sggw.pl.(5)The Faculty of Applied Informatics and Mathematics, Warsaw University of Life Sciences, 166 Nowoursynowska Street, Warsaw 02-787, Poland. Electronic address:Michal_kruk@sggw.pl.(6)Université de Tunis El Manar, Institut Supérieur d'Informatique, Research Teamon Intelligent Systems in imaging and Artificial Vision (SIIVA), Laboratoire derecherche en Informatique, Modélisation et Traitement de l'Information et de laConnaissance (LIMTIC), 2Rue Abou Raihane Bayrouni, Ariana 2080, Tunisia.Electronic address: ezzeddine.zagrouba@fsm.rnu.tn.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The aim of computer-aided-detection (CAD) systems formammograms is to assist radiologists by marking region of interest (ROIs)depicting abnormalities. However, the confusing appearance of some normal tissuesthat visually look like masses results in a large proportion of marked ROIs with normal tissues. This paper copes with this problem and proposes a framework toreduce false positive masses detected by CAD.METHODS: To avoid the error induced by the segmentation step, we proposed asegmentation-free framework with particular attention to improve featureextraction and classification steps. We investigated for the first time inmammogram analysis, Hilbert's image representation, Kolmogorov-Smirnov distanceand maximum subregion descriptors. Then, a feature selection step is performed toselect the most discriminative features. Moreover, we considered severalclassifiers such as Random Forest, Support Vector Machine and Decision Tree todistinguish between normal tissues and masses. Our experiments were carried outon a large dataset of 10168 ROIs (8254 normal tissues and 1914 masses)constructed from the Digital Database for Screening Mammography (DDSM). Tosimulate practical scenario, our normal regions are false positives asserted by aCAD system from healthy cases.RESULTS: The combination of all the descriptors yields better results than eachfeature set used alone, and the difference is statistically significant. Besides,the feature selection steps yields a statistically significant increase in theaccuracy values for the three classifiers. Finally, the random forest achievesthe highest accuracy (81.09%), outperforming the SVM classifier (80.01%)) anddecision tree (79.12%), but the difference is not statistically significant.CONCLUSIONS: The accuracy of discrimination between normal and abnormal ROIs inmammograms obtained with the proposed gray level texture features sets areencouraging and comparable to these obtained with multiresolution features.Combination of several features as well as feature selection steps improve theresults. To improve false positives reduction in CAD systems for breast cancerdiagnosis, these features could be combined with multiresolution features.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2018.03.026 PMID: 29728249 