57. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jul 1;74:302-311. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.04.052. Epub2018 May 3.Injectable magnetic supramolecular hydrogel with magnetocaloric liquid-conformal property prevents post-operative recurrence in a breast cancer model.Wu H(1), Song L(2), Chen L(1), Zhang W(3), Chen Y(1), Zang F(4), Chen H(5), MaM(1), Gu N(6), Zhang Y(7).Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory of Bioelectronics, Jiangsu Key Laboratory forBiomaterials and Devices, School of Biological Science and Medical Engineering & Collaborative Innovation Center of Suzhou Nano Science and Technology, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, PR China.(2)Department of Radiology, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210029, PR China.(3)The Jiangsu Province Research Institute for Clinical Medicine, The FirstAffiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 210029, PR China.(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Molecular and Functional Imaging, Medical School,Southeast University, Nanjing 210009, PR China.(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhongda Hospital, School of Medicine,Southeast University, Nanjing 210009, PR China.(6)State Key Laboratory of Bioelectronics, Jiangsu Key Laboratory forBiomaterials and Devices, School of Biological Science and Medical Engineering & Collaborative Innovation Center of Suzhou Nano Science and Technology, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, PR China. Electronic address: guning@seu.edu.cn.(7)State Key Laboratory of Bioelectronics, Jiangsu Key Laboratory forBiomaterials and Devices, School of Biological Science and Medical Engineering & Collaborative Innovation Center of Suzhou Nano Science and Technology, Southeast University, Nanjing 210096, PR China. Electronic address: zhangyu@seu.edu.cn.Locoregional recurrence of breast cancer after tumor resection represents severalclinical challenges. Here, we demonstrate that co-delivery of chemotherapy andthermotherapeutic agents by a magnetic supramolecular hydrogel (MSH) followingtumor resection prevents tumor recurrence in a breast cancer mouse model. Theself-assembled MSH was designed through the partial inclusion complexationassociated with the threading of α-CD on the copolymer moieties on the surface ofthe PEGylated iron oxide (Fe3O4) nanoparticles, which enables shear-thinninginjection and controllable thermoreversible gel-sol transition. MSH was injected to the postoperative wound uniformly, which became mobile and perfect match with irregular cavity without blind angle due to the magnetocaloric gel-sol transitionwhen exposed to alternating current magnetic field (ACMF). The magneticnanoparticle-mediated induction heat during the gel-sol transition process causedthe triggered release of dual-encapsulated chemotherapeutic drugs and provided aneffect of thermally induced cell damage. The hierarchical structure of the MSHensured that both hydrophobic and hydrophilic drugs can be loaded andconsecutively delivered with different release curves. The hydrogel nanocompositemight provide a potential locally therapeutic approach for the precise treatment of locoregional recurrence of cancer.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Tumor recurrence after resection represents several clinical challenges. In this study, weprepared shear-thinning injectable magnetic supramolecular hydrogel (MSH) anddemonstrated their therapeutic applications in preventing the post-operativerecurrence of breast cancer with facile synthesis and minimally invasiveimplantation in vivo. MSH was injected to the postoperative wound uniformly,which become mobile and perfect match with irregular cavity without blind anglethrough magnetocaloric gel-sol transition when exposed to ACMF. The magneticnanoparticles mediated induction heat during the gel-sol transition processcaused the triggered release of dual-encapsulated chemotherapeutic drugs as well as thermally induced cell damage. This study demonstrates that MSH with thecontrolled administration of combined thermo-chemotherapy exhibit greatsuperiority in terms of preventing post-operation cancer relapse.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.04.052 PMID: 29729897 