142. JMIR Public Health Surveill. 2018 May 3;4(2):e42. doi: 10.2196/publichealth.8163.Improving Visualization of Female Breast Cancer Survival Estimates: AnalysisUsing Interactive Mapping Reports.Ben Ramadan AA(#)(1)(2)(3)(4), Jackson-Thompson J(1)(3)(4), Schmaltz CL(1)(3).Author information: (1)Missouri Cancer Registry and Research Center, University of Missouri-Columbia,Columbia, MO, United States.(2)Department of Mathematics, Science and Informatics, Penfield College, MercerUniversity, Atlanta, GA, United States.(3)Department of Health Management and Informatics, School of Medicine,University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO, United States.(4)MU Informatics Institute, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO,United States.(#)Contributed equallyBACKGROUND: The Missouri Cancer Registry collects population-based cancerincidence data on Missouri residents diagnosed with reportable malignantneoplasms. The Missouri Cancer Registry wanted to produce data that would be ofinterest to lawmakers as well as public health officials at the legislativedistrict level on breast cancer, the most common non-skin cancer among females.OBJECTIVE: The aim was to measure and interactively visualize survival data offemale breast cancer cases in the Missouri Cancer Registry.METHODS: Female breast cancer data were linked to Missouri death records and the Social Security Death Index. Unlinked female breast cancer cases werecrossmatched to the National Death Index. Female breast cancer cases in subcountysenate districts were geocoded using TIGER/Line shapefiles to identify theirdistrict. A database was created and analyzed in SEER*Stat. Senatorial districtmaps were created using US Census Bureau's cartographic boundary files. Theresults were loaded with the cartographic data into InstantAtlas software toproduce interactive mapping reports.RESULTS: Female breast cancer survival profiles of 5-year cause-specific survivalpercentages and 95% confidence intervals, displayed in tables and interactivemaps, were created for all 34 senatorial districts. The maps visualized survival data by age, race, stage, and grade at diagnosis for the period from 2004 through2010.CONCLUSIONS: Linking cancer registry data to the National Death Index databaseimproved accuracy of female breast cancer survival data in Missouri and thiscould positively impact cancer research and policy. The created survival mapping report could be very informative and usable by public health professionals,policy makers, at-risk women, and the public.©Awatef Ahmed Ben Ramadan, Jeannette Jackson-Thompson, Chester Lee Schmaltz.Originally published in JMIR Public Health and Surveillance(http://publichealth.jmir.org), 03.05.2018.DOI: 10.2196/publichealth.8163 PMCID: PMC5958288PMID: 29724710 