97. Bioconjug Chem. 2018 Jun 20;29(6):1885-1896. doi:10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.8b00085. Epub 2018 May 24.Multi-Functional Nanogels as Theranostic Platforms: Exploiting Reversible andNonreversible Linkages for Targeting, Imaging, and Drug Delivery.Chambre L, Degirmenci A, Sanyal R, Sanyal A.Nanogels that are amenable to facile multi-functionalization with imaging,therapeutic, and targeting agents are attractive theranostic platforms foraddressing challenges in conventional diagnostics and therapy. In this work,reactive copolymers containing poly(ethylene glycol), maleimide, and pendanthydroxyl groups as side chains are used to construct nanogels by employing their thermoresponsive self-assembly in aqueous media. Subsequent cross-linking ofthese nanosized aggregates with dithiols using thiol-maleimide chemistry yieldsnanogels containing maleimide, thiol, and hydroxyl groups. The hydroxyl groupsare readily activated to N-hydroxysuccinimide based carbonates that undergoconjugation with amine-containing molecules through carbamate linkage under mild conditions. As a demonstration of multi-functionalization, the maleimide, thiol, and activated carbonate groups were functionalized with a thiol-containing cancercell targeting peptide, a maleimide-containing fluorescent indocyanine Cy5 dye,and an anticancer drug doxorubicin, respectively. It was observed that enhanceddrug release from nanogels occurs under acidic conditions. While the parentnanogel vehicles did not possess any toxicity, drug conjugated constructs withand without targeting group were cytotoxic against MDA-MB-231 breast cancercells. The cyclic peptide containing targeted nanogel exhibited slightly highercytotoxicity than its counterpart devoid of any targeting group. Furthermore,higher level of drug internalization into MDA-MB-231 cells was observed for thetargeting group containing construct. It can be envisioned that facilefabrication and multi-functionalization of these reactive nanogels simultaneouslythrough nonreversible and reversible linkages offers a modular platform that can be configured as a theranostic agent for addressing challenges in conventionaltherapy of various diseases.DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.8b00085 PMID: 29727179 