32. Breast Cancer Res. 2018 May 2;20(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s13058-018-0967-1.Atypical ductal hyperplasia: update on diagnosis, management, and molecularlandscape.Kader T(1)(2)(3), Hill P(4), Rakha EA(5), Campbell IG(1)(2)(6), GorringeKL(7)(8)(9).Author information: (1)Cancer Genetics Laboratory, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, VIC,Australia.(2)The Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne,Melbourne, VIC, Australia.(3)Cancer Genomics Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, VIC,Australia.(4)Department of Anatomical Pathology, St Vincent's Hospital, Fitzroy, VIC,Australia.(5)Department of Histopathology, University of Nottingham and NottinghamUniversity Hospitals NHS Trust, City Hospital, Nottingham, UK.(6)Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia.(7)The Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne,Melbourne, VIC, Australia. kylie.gorringe@petermac.org.(8)Cancer Genomics Program, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, VIC,Australia. kylie.gorringe@petermac.org.(9)Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, Australia.kylie.gorringe@petermac.org.BACKGROUND: Atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) is a common diagnosis in themammographic era and a significant clinical problem with wide variation indiagnosis and treatment. After a diagnosis of ADH on biopsy a proportion areupgraded to carcinoma upon excision; however, the remainder of patients areovertreated. While ADH is considered a non-obligate precursor of invasivecarcinoma, the molecular taxonomy remains unknown.MAIN TEXT: Although a few studies have revealed some of the key genomiccharacteristics of ADH, a clear understanding of the molecular changes associatedwith breast cancer progression has been limited by inadequately powered studiesand low resolution methodology. Complicating factors such as family history, and whether the ADH present in a biopsy is an isolated lesion or part of a greaterneoplastic process beyond the limited biopsy material, make accurateinterpretation of genomic features and their impact on progression to malignancy a challenging task. This article will review the definitions and variablemanagement of the patients diagnosed with ADH as well as the current knowledge ofthe molecular landscape of ADH and its clonal relationship with ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma.CONCLUSIONS: Molecular data of ADH remain sparse. Large prospective cohorts ofpure ADH with clinical follow-up need to be evaluated at DNA, RNA, and proteinlevels in order to develop biomarkers of progression to carcinoma to guidemanagement decisions.DOI: 10.1186/s13058-018-0967-1 PMCID: PMC5932853PMID: 29720211 