60. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2018 Apr 30;64(5):118-121.Detection of gene expression in sentinel lymph node of primary breast cancerpatients.Soleimani S(1), Alizadeh Shargh S(2), Keramatinia A(3), Mehrvar N(3), MansouriN(4), Doosti A(1), Mortazavi-Tabatabaei SA(5), Hashemi M(6), Movafagh A(4).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Institute of Basic Science, ShahrekordIslamic Azad University, Iran.(2)Medical Laboratory Science Department, Midwifery-Nursing Institute, IslamicAzad University of Chalous Branch, Chalous, Iran.(3)Cancer Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,Tehran, Iran.(4)Department of Medical Genetics, Cancer Research Center, School of Medicine,Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(5)Proteome Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,Tehran, Iran.(6)Department of Molecular Genetics, Tehran Medical Sciences Branch, Islamic AzadUniversity, Tehran, Iran.Sentinel lymph node (SLN) micrometstasis detection improves outcome for breastcancer follow up procedure. The aim of the present study was to identify geneprofiles that accurately predicted the outcome of breast cancer patients. Fiftytumor sample from breast cancer patients were analyzed for the expression of 3genes using quantitative-PCR. Also clinical verification for recurrence todistant organs was performed. Three gene signature were confirmed based ontumor's stage, grade, ER status, using conditional logistic regression. Based on this findings, the negative reported lymph nodes for metastasis, had micrometastasis in significant values. There was a significant difference betweennormal and cancer samples in 3 gene expression marker and also there wasmeaningful relationship between three gene expression with tumor's grade, stageaccording to progression of tumor. A novel gene expression signature predictiveof micro metastatic patients was evaluated. In this assessment, relationshipbetween this gene with tumor's features   that finding clear role for these geneswith tumor's outcome, needs to be established.PMID: 29729704 