115. PLoS One. 2018 May 8;13(5):e0197029. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197029.eCollection 2018.Fn3 proteins engineered to recognize tumor biomarker mesothelin internalize upon binding.Sirois AR(1)(2), Deny DA(3), Baierl SR(2), George KS(3), Moore SJ(1)(2)(4).Author information: (1)Molecular and Cellular Biology Program, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Amherst, Massachusetts, United States of America.(2)Picker Engineering Program, Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts, United States of America.(3)Department of Biochemistry, Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts, United States of America.(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts, United States of America.Mesothelin is a cell surface protein that is overexpressed in numerous cancers,including breast, ovarian, lung, liver, and pancreatic tumors. Aberrantexpression of mesothelin has been shown to promote tumor progression andmetastasis through interaction with established tumor biomarker CA125. Therefore,molecules that specifically bind to mesothelin have potential therapeutic anddiagnostic applications. However, no mesothelin-targeting molecules are currentlyapproved for routine clinical use. While antibodies that target mesothelin are indevelopment, some clinical applications may require a targeting molecule with an alternative protein fold. For example, non-antibody proteins are more suitablefor molecular imaging and may facilitate diverse chemical conjugation strategies to create drug delivery complexes. In this work, we engineered variants of thefibronectin type III domain (Fn3) non-antibody protein scaffold to bind tomesothelin with high affinity, using directed evolution and yeast surfacedisplay. Lead engineered Fn3 variants were solubly produced and purified frombacterial culture at high yield. Upon specific binding to mesothelin on humancancer cell lines, the engineered Fn3 proteins internalized and co-localized toearly endosomes. To our knowledge, this is the first report of non-antibodyproteins engineered to bind mesothelin. The results validate that non-antibodyproteins can be engineered to bind to tumor biomarker mesothelin, and encouragethe continued development of engineered variants for applications such astargeted diagnostics and therapeutics.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197029 PMCID: PMC5940182PMID: 29738555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]