95. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 May 8. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-0410. [Epub ahead ofprint]MAPK Reliance via Acquired CDK4/6 Inhibitor Resistance in Cancer.de Leeuw R(1), McNair C(1), Schiewer MJ(1), Neupane NP(1), Brand LJ(1), AugelloMA(1), Li Z(2), Cheng LC(2)(3)(4), Yoshida A(5), Courtney SM(6)(7), HazardES(6)(8), Hardiman G(6)(9), Hussain MH(10), Diehl JA(5), Drake JM(2)(3)(4)(11),Kelly WK(12), Knudsen KE(13)(12)(14).Author information: (1)Department of Cancer Biology, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia,Pennsylvania.(2)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey.(3)Graduate Program in Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, School of GraduateStudies, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, New Jersey.(4)Graduate Program in Quantitative Biomedicine, School of Graduate Studies,Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, New Jersey.(5)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Hollings Cancer Center,Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina.(6)Center for Genomic Medicine Bioinformatics, Medical University of SouthCarolina (MUSC), Charleston, South Carolina.(7)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of SouthCarolina, Charleston, South Carolina.(8)Library Science and Informatics, Medical University of South Carolina,Charleston, South Carolina.(9)Departments of Medicine and Public Health Sciences, Medical University ofSouth Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina.(10)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Robert H. Lurie Cancer Center, Northwestern University, Chicago,Illinois.(11)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Rutgers Robert WoodJohnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey.(12)Department of Medical Oncology, Urology and Radiation Oncology, ThomasJefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.(13)Department of Cancer Biology, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia,Pennsylvania. karen.knudsen@jefferson.edu.(14)Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas Jefferon University, Philadelphia,Pennsylvania.Purpose: Loss of cell-cycle control is a hallmark of cancer, which can betargeted with agents, including cyclin-dependent kinase-4/6 (CDK4/6) kinaseinhibitors that impinge upon the G1-S cell-cycle checkpoint via maintainingactivity of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor (RB). This class of drugs isunder clinical investigation for various solid tumor types and has recently been FDA-approved for treatment of breast cancer. However, development of therapeutic resistance is not uncommon.Experimental Design: In this study, palbociclib (aCDK4/6 inhibitor) resistance was established in models of early stage,RB-positive cancer.Results: This study demonstrates that acquired palbociclibresistance renders cancer cells broadly resistant to CDK4/6 inhibitors. Acquired resistance was associated with aggressive in vitro and in vivo phenotypes,including proliferation, migration, and invasion. Integration of RNA sequencinganalysis and phosphoproteomics profiling revealed rewiring of the kinome, with a strong enrichment for enhanced MAPK signaling across all resistance models, whichresulted in aggressive in vitro and in vivo phenotypes and prometastaticsignaling. However, CDK4/6 inhibitor-resistant models were sensitized to MEKinhibitors, revealing reliance on active MAPK signaling to promote tumor cellgrowth and invasion.Conclusions: In sum, these studies identify MAPK reliance in acquired CDK4/6 inhibitor resistance that promotes aggressive disease, whilenominating MEK inhibition as putative novel therapeutic strategy to treat orprevent CDK4/6 inhibitor resistance in cancer. Clin Cancer Res; 1-14. ©2018 AACR.©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-0410 PMID: 29739788 