51. BMJ Open. 2018 May 5;8(5):e019852. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019852.How a deliberative approach includes women in the decisions of screeningmammography: a citizens' jury feasibility study in Andalusia, Spain.Baena-Cañada JM(1), Luque-Ribelles V(2), Quílez-Cutillas A(1), Rosado-VarelaP(3), Benítez-Rodríguez E(4), Márquez-Calderón S(5), Rivera-Bautista JM(6).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital Universitario Puerta del Mar, Cadiz, Spain.(2)Department of Psychology, School of Educational Sciences, Universidad deCadiz, Cadiz, Spain.(3)Hospital Universitario de Puerto Real, Medical Oncology, Puerto Real,Andalucía, Spain.(4)Population Cancer Registry, Provincial Office of Health, Cádiz, Spain.(5)Servicio de Calidad y Procesos, Junta de Andalucia Consejeria de Salud,Sevilla, Spain.(6)Ethics Committee Bahía de Cádiz - La Janda, Hospital Universitario Puerta del Mar, Cadiz, Spain.OBJECTIVES: To verify whether a citizens' jury study is feasible to theAndalusian population and to know if women, when better informed, are able toanswer the research question of whether the Andalusian Public Health System must continue offering screening mammography to women aged 50-69. The reasons for the pertinent decision and recommendations to the political authorities will bestated.DESIGN: Qualitative research study with the methodology of citizens' jury.SETTING: Breast cancer screening programme in Andalusia (Spain).PARTICIPANTS: Thirteen women aged 50-69 with secondary school or higher educationaccepted to participate as a jury. Two epidemiologists were the expert witnesses.The main researcher was the neutral moderator.INTERVENTIONS: Jury met on Monday, 15 February 2016. The moderator indicated tothe jury that it had to assess the screening programme's key benefits and mainharm. On Tuesday, 16 February, the expert witnesses positioned for and againstthe programme. On Thursday, 18 February, the jury deliberated, reached finalconclusions, submitted its vote and stated its recommendations to politicians.The deliberation session was transcribed and analysed with the support ofATLAS.ti.5.2 software.PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Feasibility in the Andalusian population,women's vote and opinion, reasons for votes and recommendations to politicalauthorities.RESULTS: Eleven participants voted yes and two voted no. There are three reasons to vote 'yes': health, the test nature, and individual freedom. Some women invokethe lack of efficacy and the cost to justify their negative vote, at least inuniversal terms. On completion, they made suggestions to be submitted to thepertinent authorities for the improvement of information, psychology services andresearch.CONCLUSIONS: The deliberative strategy is feasible and causes a favourablepositioning regarding screening mammography, although information changes theopinion of some women, who desire informed decision making and to keep orincrease medicalisation in their lives.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-019852 PMCID: PMC5942446PMID: 29730621 