167. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2018 Apr;28(2):138-149. doi: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2017.11.009.Potential Morbidity Reduction With Proton Radiation Therapy for Breast Cancer.Braunstein LZ(1), Cahlon O(2).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY. Electronic address: cahlono@mskcc.org.Proton radiotherapy confers significant dosimetric advantages in the treatment ofmalignancies that arise adjacent to critical radiosensitive structures. To date, these advantages have been most prominent in the treatment of pediatric andcentral nervous system malignancies, although emerging data support the use ofprotons among other anatomical sites in which radiotherapy plays an importantrole. With advances in the overall treatment paradigm for breast cancer, mostpatients with localized disease now exhibit long-term disease control and,consequently, may manifest the late toxicities of aggressive treatment. As aresult, there is increasing emphasis on the mitigation of iatrogenic morbidity,with particular attention to heart and lung exposure in those receiving adjuvant radiotherapy. Indeed, recent landmark analyses have demonstrated an increase insignificant cardiac events that is linked directly to low-dose radiation to theheart. Coupled with practice-changing trials that have expanded the indicationsfor comprehensive regional nodal irradiation, there exists significant interestin employing novel technologies to mitigate cardiac dose while improving targetvolume coverage. Proton radiotherapy enjoys distinct physical advantages overphoton-based approaches and, in appropriately selected patients, markedlyimproves both target coverage and normal tissue sparing. Here, we review thedosimetric evidence that underlies the putative benefits of proton radiotherapy, and further synthesize early clinical evidence that supports the efficacy andfeasibility of proton radiation in breast cancer. Landmark, prospectiverandomized trials are underway and will ultimately define the role for protons inthe treatment of this disease.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2017.11.009 PMID: 29735190 