102. BMC Womens Health. 2018 May 8;18(1):63. doi: 10.1186/s12905-018-0550-z.MENOS4 trial: a multicentre randomised controlled trial (RCT) of a breast carenurse delivered cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) intervention to reduce theimpact of hot flushes in women with breast cancer: Study Protocol.Fenlon D(1), Nuttall J(2), May C(3), Raftery J(4), Fields J(5), Kirkpatrick E(2),Abab J(2), Ellis M(2), Rose T(2), Khambhaita P(6), Galanopoulou A(2), MaishmanT(2), Haviland J(7), Griffiths G(2), Turner L(8), Hunter M(9).Author information: (1)College of Human and Health Sciences, Swansea University, Swansea, UK.D.R.Fenlon@swansea.ac.uk.(2)Southampton Clinical Trials Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.(3)Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.(4)Primary Care and Population Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.(5)Poole Hospital NHS Trust, Poole, UK.(6)Pensions Policy Institute, King's College, WC2B 6LE, London, UK.(7)Royal Marsden Clinical Trials Unit, Sutton, UK.(8)Independent Cancer Patients' Voices, London, UK.(9)King's College, London, London, UK.BACKGROUND: Women who have been treated for breast cancer may identify vasomotor symptoms, such as hot flushes and night sweats (HFNS), as a serious problem. HFNSare unpleasant to experience and can have a significant impact on daily life,potentially leading to reduced adherence to life saving adjuvant hormonaltherapy. It is known that Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) is effective forthe alleviation of hot flushes in both well women and women who have had breastcancer. Most women with breast cancer will see a breast care nurse and there isevidence that nurses can be trained to deliver psychological treatments to asatisfactory level, whilst also maintaining treatment fidelity. The research teamwill assess whether breast care nurses can effectively deliver a CBT interventionto alleviate hot flushes in women with breast cancer.METHODS: This study is a multi-centre phase III individually randomisedcontrolled trial of group CBT versus usual care to reduce the impact of hotflushes in women with breast cancer. 120-160 women with primary breast cancerexperiencing seven or more problematic HFNS a week will be randomised to receive either treatment as usual (TAU) or participation in the group CBT interventionplus TAU (CBT Group). A process evaluation using May's Normalisation ProcessTheory will be conducted, as well as practical and organisational issues relatingto the implementation of the intervention. Fidelity of implementation of theintervention will be conducted by expert assessment. The cost effectiveness ofthe intervention will also be assessed.DISCUSSION: There is a need for studies that enable effective interventions to beimplemented in practice. There is good evidence that CBT is helpful for womenwith breast cancer who experience HFNS, yet it is not widely available. It is notyet known whether the intervention can be effectively delivered by breast carenurses or implemented in practice. This study will provide information on bothwhether the intervention can effectively help women with hot flushes and whether and how it can be translated into routine clinical practice.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN 12824632 . Registered 25-01-2017.DOI: 10.1186/s12905-018-0550-z PMCID: PMC5941327PMID: 29739384 