Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST None.10. Oncotarget. 2018 Apr 13;9(28):20018-20033. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25034.eCollection 2018 Apr 13.Loss of inter-cellular cooperation by complete epithelial-mesenchymal transition supports favorable outcomes in basal breast cancer patients.Grosse-Wilde A(1), Kuestner RE(1), Skelton SM(1), MacIntosh E(1), d'HérouëlAF(1)(2), Ertaylan G(2)(3), Del Sol A(2), Skupin A(#)(1)(2), Huang S(#)(1).Author information: (1)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, WA, USA.(2)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg.(3)Environmental Risk and Health Unit, Flemish Institute for TechnologicalResearch (VITO), Mol, Belgium.(#)Contributed equallyAccording to the sequential metastasis model, aggressive mesenchymal (M)metastasis-initiating cells (MICs) are generated by an epithelial-mesenchymaltransition (EMT) which eventually is reversed by a mesenchymal-epithelialtransition (MET) and outgrowth of life-threatening epithelial (E)macrometastases. Paradoxically, in breast cancer M signatures are linked withmore favorable outcomes than E signatures, and M cells are often dispensable for metastasis in mouse models. Here we present evidence at the cellular and patient level for the cooperation metastasis model, according to which E cells are MICs, while M cells merely support E cell persistence through cooperation. We trackedthe fates of co-cultured E and M clones and of fluorescent CDH1-promoter-drivencell lines reporting the E state derived from basal breast cancer HMLER cells.Cells were placed in suspension state and allowed to reattach and select an EMTcell fate. Flow cytometry, single cell and bulk gene expression analyses revealedthat only pre-existing E cells generated E cells, mixed E/M populations, orstem-like hybrid E/M cells after suspension and that complete EMT manifest in Mclones and CDH1-negative reporter cells resulted in loss of cell plasticity,suggesting full transdifferentiation. Mechanistically, E-M coculture experiments supported the persistence of pre-existing E cells where M cells inhibited EMT of E cells in a mutual cooperation via direct cell-cell contact. Consistently, Msignatures were associated with more favorable patient outcomes compared to Esignatures in breast cancer, specifically in basal breast cancer patients. These findings suggest a potential benefit of complete EMT for basal breast cancerpatients.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25034 PMCID: PMC5929443PMID: 29732000 