134. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 May 7. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4807-x. [Epub ahead of print]Homologous recombination deficiency and host anti-tumor immunity intriple-negative breast cancer.Telli ML(1), Stover DG(2)(3), Loi S(4), Aparicio S(5), Carey LA(6), DomchekSM(7), Newman L(8), Sledge GW(1), Winer EP(9).Author information: (1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.(2)Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Columbus, OH, USA.daniel.stover@osumc.edu.(3)Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center, Biomedical Research Tower, Room 512, 460 West 12th Ave, Columbus, OH, 43210, USA. daniel.stover@osumc.edu.(4)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.(5)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.(6)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.(7)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(8)Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI, USA.(9)Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.PURPOSE: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with worse outcomesrelative to other breast cancer subtypes. Chemotherapy remains thestandard-of-care systemic therapy for patients with localized or metastaticdisease, with few biomarkers to guide benefit.METHODS: We will discuss recent advances in our understanding of two keybiological processes in TNBC, homologous recombination (HR) DNA repair deficiencyand host anti-tumor immunity, and their intersection.RESULTS: Recent advances in our understanding of homologous recombination (HR)deficiency, including FDA approval of PARP inhibitor olaparib for BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation carriers, and host anti-tumor immunity in TNBC offer potential for newand biomarker-driven approaches to treat TNBC. Assays interrogating HR DNA repaircapacity may guide treatment with agents inducing or targeting DNA damage repair.Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are associated with improved prognosis inTNBC and recent efforts to characterize infiltrating immune cell subsets andactivate host anti-tumor immunity offer promise, yet challenges remainparticularly in tumors lacking pre-existing immune infiltrates. Advances in thesefields provide potential biomarkers to stratify patients with TNBC and guidetherapy: induction of DNA damage in HR-deficient tumors and activation ofexisting or recruitment of host anti-tumor immune cells. Importantly, theseadvances provide an opportunity to guide use of existing therapies anddevelopment of novel therapies for TNBC. Efforts to combine therapies thatexploit HR deficiency to enhance the activity of immune-directed therapies offer promise.CONCLUSIONS: HR deficiency remains an important biomarker target and potentially effective adjunct to enhance immunogenicity of 'immune cold' TNBCs.DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4807-x PMID: 29736741 