Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.34. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2018 Apr 24;12:987-995. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S152685.eCollection 2018.Clickable prodrugs bearing potent and hydrolytically cleavable nicotinamidephosphoribosyltransferase inhibitors.Sadrerafi K(1), Mason EO(1), Lee MW Jr(1).Author information: (1)Department of Chemistry, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.Purpose: Our previous study indicated that carborane containing small-molecule1-(hydroxymethyl)-7-(4'-(trans-3″-(3'″-pyridyl)acrylamido)butyl)-1,7-dicarbadodecaborane (hm-MC4-PPEA), was a potent inhibitor of nicotinamidephosphoribosyltransferase (Nampt). Nampt has been shown to be upregulated in mostcancers and is a promising target for the treatment of many different types ofcancers, including breast cancers.Patients and methods: To increase the selectivity of hm-MC4-PPEA toward cancercells, three prodrugs were synthesized with different hydrolyzable linkers:ester, carbonate, and carbamate. Using click chemistry a fluorophore was attachedto these prodrugs to act as a model for our conjugation strategy and to serve as an aid for prodrug stability studies. The stabilities of these drug conjugateswere tested in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) at normothermia (37°C) using threedifferent pH levels, 5.5, 7.5, and 9.5, as well as in horse serum atphysiological pH. The stability of each was monitored using reversed-phase HPLCequipped with both diode array and fluorescence detection. The inhibitoryactivity of hm-MC4-PPEA was also measured using a commercially availablecolorimetric assay. The biological activities of the drug conjugates as well asthose of the free drug (hm-MC4-PPEA), were evaluated using the MTT assay against the human breast cancer cell lines T47D and MCF7, as well as the noncancerous,transformed, Nampt-dependent human breast epithelium cell line 184A1.Results: hm-MC4-PPEA showed to be a potent inhibitor of recombinant Namptactivity, exhibiting an IC50 concentration of 6.8 nM. The prodrugs showed greatstability towards hydrolytic degradation under neutral, mildly acidic and mildly basic conditions. The carbamate prodrug also showed to be stable in rat serum.However, the carbonate and the ester prodrug release at various rates in serumpresumably owing to the presence of several different classes of esterase. Thebiological activities of the drug conjugates correlate with the stability oftheir cleavable linkers observed in serum.Conclusion: The targeted and selective delivery of potent Nampt inhibitors tocancer cells is a potentially new route for the treatment of many cancers. These prodrugs linked to small cancer-associated peptides may be optimum for their use as targetable Nampt inhibitors.DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S152685 PMCID: PMC5923274PMID: 29731606 