175. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2018 May 7. doi: 10.1002/jmri.26175. [Epub ahead of print]Assessment of breast mass morphology with diffusion-weighted MRI: Beyond apparentdiffusion coefficient.Kul S(1), Metin Y(2), Kul M(3), Metin N(2), Eyuboglu I(1), Ozdemir O(2).Author information: (1)Karadeniz Technical University, School of Medicine, Department of Radiology,Trabzon, Turkey.(2)Recep Tayyib Erdoğan University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Radiology,Rize, Turkey.(3)Trabzon Kanuni Training and Research Hospital, Department of Radiology,Trabzon, Turkey.BACKGROUND: Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) is a noncontrast-enhanced MRItechnique. There are new promising studies on the use of DWI as a part of theenhanced or unenhanced abbreviated breast MRI protocols.PURPOSE: To evaluate the ability of breast DWI in the assessment of massmorphology and determine the contribution of this morphologic evaluation in theircharacterization.STUDY TYPE: Retrospective.POPULATION: In all, 213 consecutive women were breast MR imaged and had a laterconfirmed diagnosis.FIELD STRENGTH/SEQUENCE: Breast dynamic contrast-enhanced-MRI (DCE-MRI) and DWIat 1.5T.ASSESSMENT: After Institutional Review Board approval, two radiologists firstindependently, and later in consensus, evaluated the visibility and morphology ofthe 143 malignant, 70 benign masses on DWI and DCE-MRI in separate sessions,blindly. Shape, margin, and internal pattern of the masses were evaluatedaccording to BI-RADS lexicon. Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and tumor sizewere measured by one radiologist.STATISTICAL TESTS: Consistency between imaging methods and readers was evaluated with Cohen's kappa statistics. Multivariate analysis was applied to find the bestpredictors of malignancy.RESULTS: Tumor visibility on DWI was high to moderate in at least 88% of cases.Consistency between DWI and DCE-MRI was substantial (kappa ≥0.757) for shape and margin and moderate (kappa = 0.505) for internal pattern. Interobserver agreementwas substantial to moderate for all morphologic parameters (kappa ≥0.596).Morphology evaluated on DWI provided 83-84% accuracy in discriminating malignant from benign masses. ADC alone provided 90-91% accuracy. Both morphologicparameters and ADC were significantly associated with malignancy on multivariate analysis and provided 91-93% accuracy.DATA CONCLUSION: DWI might be used not only for ADC evaluation but also for themorphological evaluation of breast masses to characterize them.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 3 Technical Efficacy: Stage 2 J. Magn. Reson. Imaging 2018.© 2018 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/jmri.26175 PMID: 29734493 