161. BMC Palliat Care. 2018 May 11;17(1):74. doi: 10.1186/s12904-018-0330-4.The availability and effectiveness of tools supporting shared decision making in metastatic breast cancer care: a review.Spronk I(1), Burgers JS(2), Schellevis FG(3)(4), van Vliet LM(3), Korevaar JC(3).Author information: (1)NIVEL (Netherlands Institute for Health Services Research), P.O. Box 1568,3500BN, Utrecht, The Netherlands. ingespronk@gmail.com.(2)Dutch College of General Practitioners, Utrecht, The Netherlands. SchoolCAPHRI, Department Family Medicine, Maastricht University, Maastricht, TheNetherlands.(3)NIVEL (Netherlands Institute for Health Services Research), P.O. Box 1568,3500BN, Utrecht, The Netherlands.(4)Department of General Practice & Elderly Care Medicine/ Amsterdam PublicHealth Research Institute, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands.BACKGROUND: Shared decision-making (SDM) in the management of metastatic breastcancer care is associated with positive patient outcomes. In daily clinicalpractice, however, SDM is not fully integrated yet. Initiatives to improve theimplementation of SDM would be helpful. The aim of this review was to assess the availability and effectiveness of tools supporting SDM in metastatic breastcancer care.METHODS: Literature databases were systematically searched for articles publishedsince 2006 focusing on the development or evaluation of tools to improveinformation-provision and to support decision-making in metastatic breast cancer care. Internet searches and experts identified additional tools. Data fromincluded tools were extracted and the evaluation of tools was appraised using theGRADE grading system.RESULTS: The literature search yielded five instruments. In addition, two toolswere identified via internet searches and consultation of experts. Four toolswere specifically developed for supporting SDM in metastatic breast cancer, theother three tools focused on metastatic cancer in general. Tools were mainlyapplicable across the care process, and usable for decisions on supportive carewith or without chemotherapy. All tools were designed for patients to be usedbefore a consultation with the physician. Effects on patient outcomes weregenerally weakly positive although most tools were not studied in well-designedstudies.CONCLUSIONS: Despite its recognized importance, only two tools were positivelyevaluated on effectiveness and are available to support patients with metastatic breast cancer in SDM. These tools show promising results in pilot studies andfocus on different aspects of care. However, their effectiveness should beconfirmed in well-designed studies before implementation in clinical practice.Innovation and development of SDM tools targeting clinicians as well as patients during a clinical encounter is recommended.DOI: 10.1186/s12904-018-0330-4 PMCID: PMC5946394PMID: 29747628 