78. Psychooncology. 2018 May 8. doi: 10.1002/pon.4755. [Epub ahead of print]Effects of physical activity on psychological well-being outcomes in breastcancer survivors from prediagnosis to posttreatment survivorship.Aguiñaga S(1), Ehlers DK(2), Cosman J(3)(4), Severson J(3), Kramer AF(1)(5),McAuley E(1).Author information: (1)University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.(2)University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.(3)Digital Artefacts, Iowa City, IA, USA.(4)Pfizer Incorporated, Cambridge, MA, USA.(5)Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of physicalactivity from prediagnosis to posttreatment survivorship on the psychologicalwell-being (PWB) outcomes of fatigue, depression, anxiety, and quality of life(QoL) in breast cancer survivors (BCS).METHODS: Participants (N = 387) completed a questionnaire battery by using aniPad-based platform. Measures included self-reported PA (before diagnosis andcurrently) and perceptions of fatigue, depression, anxiety, and QoL. Multivariateanalysis of covariance was used to examine differences in PWB among BCScategorized into 1 of 4 physical activity levels: (a) low-active prediagnosis,low-active currently (low-active maintainers; n = 128); (b) low-activeprediagnosis, active currently (increasers; n = 74); (c) active prediagnosis,low-active currently (decreasers; n = 52); and (d) active prediagnosis, activecurrently (high-active maintainers; n = 136). Participants were classified asactive (≥24 units) or low-active (<24 units) by using Godin Leisure-Time ExerciseQuestionnaire cut-points for health benefits.RESULTS: Fatigue and depression were lowest, and QoL was highest among women inthe high-active maintainers category, followed by the increasers, low-activemaintainers, and decreasers. No differences in anxiety were observed acrosscategories. Women in the high-active maintainers category differed significantly in fatigue, depression, and QoL from both low-active categories (low-activemaintainers and decreasers), P ≤ .001. Women in the increasers category alsodiffered significantly in fatigue, depression, and QoL from the decreasers,P ≤ .01.CONCLUSION: Low physical activity during survivorship was associated with greaterfatigue and depression and lower QoL.IMPLICATIONS FOR CANCER SURVIVORS: Efforts to help increase or maintain highlevels of physical activity may be critical to helping BCS maintain their PWB.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4755 PMID: 29740914 