158. Phytomedicine. 2018 Apr 1;43:21-27. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.03.041. Epub 2018 Mar 19.Crocus sativus a natural food coloring and flavoring has potent anti-tumorproperties.Khorasanchi Z(1), Shafiee M(1), Kermanshahi F(1), Khazaei M(2), Ryzhikov M(3),Parizadeh MR(4), Kermanshahi B(5), Ferns GA(6), Avan A(7), Hassanian SM(8).Author information: (1)Department of Nutrition, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University of MedicalSciences, Mashhad, Iran.(2)Department of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University ofMedical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(3)Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, St. Louis University,School of Medicine, Saint Louis, MO, USA.(4)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University ofMedical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Metabolic Syndrome Research Center, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(5)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad,Iran.(6)Brighton & Sussex Medical School, Division of Medical Education, Falmer,Brighton, Sussex BN1 9PH, UK.(7)Metabolic Syndrome Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,Mashhad, Iran; Department of Modern Sciences and Technologies, Faculty ofMedicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronicaddress: AvanA@mums.ac.ir.(8)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Mashhad University ofMedical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran; Metabolic Syndrome Research Center, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address:hasanianmehrm@mums.ac.ir.BACKGROUND: Saffron, the dried stigmas of Crocus sativus L., is a highly valuedagricultural product that is used mainly as a food coloring and flavoring agent. Three main secondary metabolites of Crocus sativus including crocin, picrocrocin,and safranal are responsible for the color, the bitter taste and for the odor andaroma, respectively. As a component of traditional medicine, saffron has beenutilized as a medicinal herb for treating various ailments including cramps,asthma, liver disease, menstruation disorders, pain, and in the pathogenesis ofcancer.HYPOTHESIS/PURPOSE: To summarize the recent published data on thechemo-preventive properties of Crocus sativus in cancer treatment.STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a non-systematic review of the literature.METHODS: A search of English-language literature was performed using Scopus,EMBASE and PubMed. We applied no restriction in time. Articles were searchedusing the keywords "Lung", "breast", "skin", "prostate", "leukemia", "cancer","neoplasm", "tumor", "malignancy", "saffron", "crocus sativus", "crocin","crocetin", "picrocrocin", and "safranal".RESULTS: Saffron has been reported to exert anti-tumor and anti-cancer effects invarious types of cancer including lung cancer, breast cancer, leukemia, skincancer and prostate cancer. This appears to be via various mechanisms including: the induction of apoptosis, arresting cell cycle progression, suppressingexpression of matrix metalloproteinase, modulatory effects on some phase IIdetoxifying enzymes and decreasing expression of inflammatory molecules arepotential mechanisms of saffron-induced anticancer effects.CONCLUSION: Saffron possesses potent anti-tumor properties and represents anefficacious and safe treatment.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2018.03.041 PMID: 29747750 