72. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2018 May 9. doi: 10.1111/cen.13735. [Epub ahead of print]Assessment and management of bone health in women with oestrogenreceptor-positive breast cancer receiving endocrine therapy: Position statementof the Endocrine Society of Australia, the Australian and New Zealand Bone &Mineral Society, the Australasian Menopause Society and the Clinical OncologySociety of Australia.Grossmann M(1)(2), Ramchand SK(1)(2), Milat F(3)(4)(5), Vincent A(3)(6), LimE(7)(8), Kotowicz MA(9)(10)(11), Hicks J(12), Teede H(3)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Endocrinology, Austin Health, Heidelberg, Vic., Australia.(2)Department of Medicine, Austin Health, The University of Melbourne,Heidelberg, Vic., Australia.(3)Department of Endocrinology, Monash Health, Clayton, Vic., Australia.(4)Hudson Institute of Medical Research, Clayton, Vic., Australia.(5)Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Sciences, Monash University,Clayton, Vic., Australia.(6)Monash Centre for Health Research and Implementation, Monash Public Health andPreventative Medicine, Monash University, Clayton, Vic., Australia.(7)Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Darlinghurst, NSW, Australia.(8)St Vincent's Hospital, University of New South Wales Sydney, Darlinghurst,NSW, Australia.(9)Deakin University, Geelong, Vic., Australia.(10)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes, University Hospital, Geelong, Vic.,Australia.(11)Department of Medicine, Melbourne Medical School - Western Campus, TheUniversity of Melbourne, St Albans, Vic., Australia.(12)Breast Cancer Network Australia, Camberwell, Vic., Australia.To formulate clinical consensus recommendations on bone health assessment andmanagement of women with oestrogen receptor-positive early breast cancerreceiving endocrine therapy, representatives appointed by relevant AustralianMedical Societies used a systematic approach for adaptation of guidelines(ADAPTE) to derive an evidence-informed position statement addressing 5 keyquestions. Women receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitors and the subset ofpremenopausal woman treated with tamoxifen have accelerated bone loss andincreased fracture risk. Both bisphosphonates and denosumab prevent bone loss;additionally, denosumab has proven antifracture benefit. Women consideringendocrine therapy need fracture risk assessment, including clinical risk factors,biochemistry and bone mineral density (BMD) measurement, with monitoring based onrisk factors. Weight-bearing exercise, vitamin D and calcium sufficiency arerecommended routinely. Antiresorptive treatment should be considered in womenwith prevalent or incident clinical or morphometric fractures, a T-score (orZ-scores in women <50 years) of <-2.0 at any site, or if annual bone loss is ≥5%,considering baseline BMD and other fracture risk factors. Duration ofantiresorptive treatment can be individualized based on absolute fracture risk.Relative to their skeletal benefits, risks of adverse events with antiresorptive treatments are low. Skeletal health should be considered in the decision-makingprocess regarding choice and duration of endocrine therapy. Before and duringendocrine therapy, skeletal health should be assessed regularly, optimized bynonpharmacological intervention and where indicated antiresorptive treatment, in an individualized, multidisciplinary approach. Clinical trials are needed tobetter delineate long-term fracture risks of adjuvant endocrine therapy and todetermine the efficacy of interventions designed to minimize these risks.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/cen.13735 PMID: 29741296 