51. Food Chem Toxicol. 2018 May 6;118:154-167. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2018.05.005. [Epub ahead of print]Myricetin-induced apoptosis of triple-negative breast cancer cells is mediated bythe iron-dependent generation of reactive oxygen species from hydrogen peroxide.Knickle A(1), Fernando W(2), Greenshields AL(2), Rupasinghe HPV(3), Hoskin DW(4).Author information: (1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, DalhousieUniversity, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.(2)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax,Nova Scotia, Canada.(3)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax,Nova Scotia, Canada; Department of Plant, Food, and Environmental Sciences,Faculty of Agriculture, Dalhousie University, Truro, Nova Scotia, Canada.(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, DalhousieUniversity, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada; Department of Pathology, Faculty ofMedicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada; Department ofSurgery, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia, Canada.Electronic address: d.w.hoskin@dal.ca.Myricetin is a dietary phytochemical with anticancer activity; however, theeffect of myricetin on breast cancer cells remains unclear. Here, we show thatmyricetin inhibited the growth of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells but was less inhibitory for normal cells. The effect of myricetin was comparable toepigallocatechin gallate and doxorubicin, and greater than resveratrol andcisplatin. Myricetin-treated TNBC cells showed evidence of early and lateapoptosis/necrosis, which was associated with intracellular reactive oxygenspecies (ROS) accumulation, extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 and p38mitogen-activated protein kinase activation, mitochondrial membranedestabilization and cytochrome c release, and double-strand DNA breaks. Theantioxidant N-acetyl-cysteine protected myricetin-treated TNBC cells fromcytotoxicity due to DNA damage. Myricetin also induced hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)production in cell-free culture medium, as well as in the presence of TNBC cells and normal cells. In addition, deferiprone-mediated inhibition of intracellularROS generation via the iron-dependent Fenton reaction and inhibition ofextracellular ROS accumulation with superoxide dismutase plus catalase prevented myricetin-induced cytotoxicity in TNBC cell cultures. We conclude that thecytotoxic effect of myricetin on TNBC cells was due to oxidative stress initiatedby extracellular H2O2 formed by autoxidation of myricetin, leading tointracellular ROS production via the Fenton reaction.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2018.05.005 PMID: 29742465 