13. J Mammary Gland Biol Neoplasia. 2018 May 9. doi: 10.1007/s10911-018-9396-0. [Epubahead of print]Radiological, Histological and Chemical Analysis of Breast Microcalcifications:Diagnostic Value and Biological Significance.Bonfiglio R(1), Scimeca M(2)(3)(4), Toschi N(4)(5)(6), Pistolese CA(4), Giannini E(1), Antonacci C(1), Ciuffa S(1), Tancredi V(3)(7), Tarantino U(8), AlboniciL(9), Bonanno E(10)(11).Author information: (1)Department of Experimental Medicine and Surgery, University of Rome TorVergata, Via Montpellier 1, 00133, Rome, Italy.(2)OrchideaLab S.r.l., via del Grecale 6, Morlupo, Rome, RM, Italy.(3)IRCCS San Raffaele Pisana, 00166, Rome, Italy.(4)Department of Biomedicine and Prevention, University of Rome "Tor Vergata",Via Montpellier 1, 00133, Rome, Italy.(5)Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Boston, MA, USA.(6)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(7)Department of Systems Medicine, School of Sport and Exercise Sciences,University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.(8)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, "Tor Vergata" University of Rome, "Policlinico Tor Vergata" Foundation, Rome, Italy.(9)Department of Clinical Sciences and Translational Medicine, University of Rome"Tor Vergata", 00133, Rome, Italy.(10)Department of Experimental Medicine and Surgery, University of Rome TorVergata, Via Montpellier 1, 00133, Rome, Italy. elena.bonanno@uniroma2.it.(11)IRCCS Neuromed Lab. 'Diagnostica Medica' & 'Villa dei Platani', 83100,Avellino, Italy. elena.bonanno@uniroma2.it.Classification of mammary microcalcifications is based on radiological andhistological characteristics that are routinely evaluated during the diagnosticpath for the identification of breast cancer, or in patients at risk ofdeveloping breast cancer. The main aim of this study was to explore therelationship between the imaging parameters most commonly used for the study ofmammary microcalcifications and the corresponding histological and chemicalproperties. To this end, we matched the radiographic characteristics ofmicrocalcifications to breast lesion type, histology of microcalcifications andelemental composition of microcalcifications as obtained by energy dispersive xray (EDX)-microanalysis. In addition, we investigated the properties of breastcancer microenvironment, under the hypothesis that microcalcification formationcould result from a mineralization process similar to that occurring during bone osteogenesis. In this context, breast lesions with and withoutmicrocalcifications were compared in terms of the expression of the mainmolecules detected during bone mineralization (BMP-2, BMP-4, PTX3, RANKL OPN and RUNX2). Our data indicate that microcalcifications classified by mammography as"casting type" are prevalently made of hydroxyapatite magnesium substituted andare associated with breast cancer types with the poorest prognosis. Moreover,breast cancer cells close to microcalcifications expressed higher levels of bone mineralization markers as compared to cells found in breast lesions withoutmicrocalcifications. Notably, breast lesions with microcalcifications werecharacterized by the presence of breast-osteoblast-like cells. In depth studiesof microcalcifications characteristics could support a new interpretation aboutthe genesis of ectopic calcification in mammary tissue. Candidating thisphenomenon as an integral part of the tumorigenic process therefore has thepotential to improve the clinical management of patients early during theirdiagnostic path.DOI: 10.1007/s10911-018-9396-0 PMID: 29744755 