79. Psychooncology. 2018 May 8. doi: 10.1002/pon.4753. [Epub ahead of print]The role of posttraumatic stress and posttraumatic growth on online informationuse in breast cancer survivors.Casellas-Grau A(1)(2), Sumalla EC(1), Lleras M(1)(3), Vives J(4), Sirgo A(5),León C(6), Rodríguez A(1), Campos G(1), Valverde Y(1), Borràs JM(1)(2)(7), Ochoa C(1)(2)(7).Author information: (1)Institut Català d'Oncologia, Barcelona, Spain.(2)Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.(3)Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona, Spain.(4)Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.(5)Hospital Sant Joan de Reus, Tarragona, Spain.(6)Hospital Parc Taulí de Sabadell i Consorci Hospitalari de Terrassa, Barcelona,Spain.(7)Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.OBJECTIVE: Changes perceived as both positive (eg, posttraumatic growth [PTG])and negative (eg, posttraumatic stress symptoms [PTSS]) have been associated withintensive Internet use among breast cancer survivors. In this multicenter study, we analyzed the role of PTG and PTSS on the amount of time spent looking foronline cancer information, its content, and its psychological impact.METHODS: Posttraumatic stress symptoms and PTG were assessed in 182 breast cancersurvivors by using the Post-traumatic Stress Disorder Checklist andPost-traumatic Growth Inventory questionnaires. Subjects also completed aquestionnaire about their behavior when looking for online illness-relatedinformation (ie, time spent, type of contents, and psychological impact).RESULTS: Posttraumatic stress symptoms positively correlated with the amount oftime spent looking for cancer-related information, including both medical andpsychosocial content. By contrast, PTG showed no relationships with the amount oftime, but with a predominant search for cancer-related psychosocial information. The psychological impact of online information was associated with participants' levels of PTG and/or PTSS. Whereas PTG was related to a decrease of women's hope,PTSS was linked to the perception of being less conscious or inadequatelyinformed about the illness, thereby increasing feelings of distress.CONCLUSIONS: Posttraumatic stress symptoms and PTG show relationships with theamount of time spent online, the type of information accessed online, and thepsychological impact of Internet use. Health professionals should prescribeonline information according to the psychological response to cancer. There is a need for professional-led online resources to provide patients with timelyinformation as well as support sites to facilitate psychological adjustment.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4753 PMID: 29740909 