66. Bone. 2018 Aug;113:77-88. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2018.05.008. Epub 2018 May 16.Early TGF-β inhibition in mice reduces the incidence of breast cancer inducedbone disease in a myeloid dependent manner.Buenrostro D(1), Kwakwa KA(1), Putnam NE(2), Merkel AR(3), Johnson JR(4), Cassat JE(5), Sterling JA(6).Author information: (1)Department of Veterans Affairs, Tennessee Valley Healthcare System, Nashville,TN, USA; Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;Vanderbilt Center for Bone Biology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,Nashville, TN, USA.(2)Vanderbilt Center for Bone Biology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,Nashville, TN, USA; Department of Pathology, Microbiology, and Immunology,Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.(3)Department of Veterans Affairs, Tennessee Valley Healthcare System, Nashville,TN, USA; Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Pharmacology, VanderbiltUniversity Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA; Vanderbilt Center for BoneBiology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.(4)Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Pharmacology, VanderbiltUniversity Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA; Vanderbilt Center for BoneBiology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.(5)Vanderbilt Center for Bone Biology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center,Nashville, TN, USA; Departments of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric InfectiousDiseases, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA; Department ofPathology, Microbiology, and Immunology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN,USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University School ofEngineering, Nashville, TN, USA.(6)Department of Veterans Affairs, Tennessee Valley Healthcare System, Nashville,TN, USA; Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA; Vanderbilt Center for Bone Biology,Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA; Department ofBiomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University School of Engineering, Nashville,TN, USA. Electronic address: julie.sterling@vanderbilt.edu.The tumor-cell microenvironment is recognized as a dynamic place where criticalcell interactions occur and play an important role in altering tumorigenesis.While many studies have investigated the effects of cellular cross-talk withindistinct tumor microenvironments, these interactions have yet to be fullyexamined in bone. It is well-established that many common cancers metastasize to bone, resulting in the development of tumor-induced bone disease (TIBD), amulti-facetted illness that is driven by complex cell interactions within thebone marrow. Our group has previously published that myeloid progenitor cellsexpand in the presence of tumors in bone, aligning with the notion that myeloidcells can act as tumor promotors. Several groups, including ours, haveestablished that transforming growth factor β (TGF-β), an abundant growth factor in bone, can regulate both TIBD and myeloid expansion. TGF-β inhibitors have beenshown to increase bone volume, decrease bone destruction, and reduce but noteliminate tumor. Therefore, we hypothesize that inhibiting TGF-β will reducemyeloid expansion leading to a reduction of tumor burden in bone andosteoclast-mediated bone loss, causing to an overall reduction in TIBD. Toaddress this hypothesis, two different mouse models of breast cancer bonecolonization were pre-treated with the TGF-β neutralizing antibody, 1D11, priorto tumor inoculation (athymic: MDA-MB-231, BALB/c: 4T1) and continuously treated until sacrifice. Additionally, a genetically modified mouse model with a myeloid specific deletion of transforming growth factor beta receptor II (TGF-βRII)(TGF-βRIIMyeKO) was utilized in our studies. Systemic inhibition of TGF-β lead tofewer osteolytic lesions, and reduced tumor burden in bone as expected fromprevious studies. Additionally, early TGF-β inhibition affected expansion ofdistinct myeloid populations and shifted the cytokine profile of pro-tumorigenic factors in bone, 4T1 tumor cells, and bone-marrow derived macrophages. Similarobservations were seen in tumor-bearing TGF-βRIIMyeKO mice, where these micecontained fewer bone lesions and significantly less tumor burden in bone,suggesting that TGF-β inhibition regulates myeloid expansion leading to asignificant reduction in TIBD.Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2018.05.008 PMID: 29753718 