1. Metabolites. 2018 May 14;8(2). pii: E32. doi: 10.3390/metabo8020032.Profiling Redox and Energy Coenzymes in Whole Blood, Tissue and Cells Using NMRSpectroscopy.Gowda GAN(1)(2).Author information: (1)Northwest Metabolomics Research Center, Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98109, USA. ngowda@uw.edu.(2)Mitochondria and Metabolism Center, Department of Anesthesiology and PainMedicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98109, USA. ngowda@uw.edu.Coenzymes of cellular redox reactions and cellular energy, as well asantioxidants mediate biochemical reactions fundamental to the functioning of all living cells. Conventional analysis methods lack the opportunity to evaluatethese important redox and energy coenzymes and antioxidants in a single step.Major coenzymes include redox coenzymes: NAD⁺ (oxidized nicotinamide adeninedinucleotide), NADH (reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide), NADP⁺ (oxidized nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate) and NADPH (reduced nicotinamideadenine dinucleotide phosphate); energy coenzymes: ATP (adenosine triphosphate), ADP (adenosine diphosphate) and AMP (adenosine monophosphate); and antioxidants: GSSG (oxidized glutathione) and GSH (reduced glutathione). We show here that asimple ¹H NMR experiment can measure these coenzymes and antioxidants in tissueand whole blood apart from a vast pool of other metabolites. In addition, focusedon the goal of identification of coenzymes in subcellular fractions, wedemonstrate analysis of coenzymes in the cytoplasm using breast cancer cells.Owing to their unstable nature, or low concentrations, most of the coenzymeseither evade detection or lose their integrity when established samplepreparation and analysis methods are used. To overcome this challenge, here wedescribe the development of new methods to detect these molecules withoutaffecting the integrity of other metabolites. We used an array of 1D and 2D NMRmethods, chemical shift databases, pH measurements and spiking with authenticcompounds to establish the identity of peaks for the coenzymes and antioxidantsin NMR spectra. Interestingly, while none of the coenzymes and antioxidants were detected in plasma, they were abundant in whole blood. Considering that thecoenzymes and antioxidants represent a sensitive measure of human health and riskfor numerous diseases, the presented NMR methods to measure them in one steppotentially open new opportunities in the metabolomics field.DOI: 10.3390/metabo8020032 PMCID: PMC6027050PMID: 29757993 