183. Adv Biol Regul. 2018 May 9. pii: S2212-4926(18)30078-2. doi:10.1016/j.jbior.2018.05.001. [Epub ahead of print]Nuclear organization mediates cancer-compromised genetic and epigenetic control.Zaidi SK(1), Fritz AJ(1), Tracy KM(1), Gordon JA(1), Tye CE(1), Boyd J(1), VanWijnen AJ(2), Nickerson JA(3), Imbalzano AN(4), Lian JB(1), Stein JL(5), SteinGS(6).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry and University of Vermont Cancer Center, Universityof Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States.(2)Departments of Orthopedic Surgery, Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, MayoClinic, Rochester, MN, United States.(3)Department of Pediatrics, UMass Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.(4)Graduate Program in Cell Biology and Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, UMass Medical School, Worcester, MA, United States.(5)Department of Biochemistry and University of Vermont Cancer Center, Universityof Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States. Electronic address:janet.stein@uvm.edu.(6)Department of Biochemistry and University of Vermont Cancer Center, Universityof Vermont, Burlington, VT, United States. Electronic address:gary.stein@uvm.edu.Nuclear organization is functionally linked to genetic and epigenetic regulation of gene expression for biological control and is modified in cancer. Nuclearorganization supports cell growth and phenotypic properties of normal and cancer cells by facilitating physiologically responsive interactions of chromosomes,genes and regulatory complexes at dynamic three-dimensional microenvironments. Wewill review nuclear structure/function relationships that include: 1. Epigenetic bookmarking of genes by phenotypic transcription factors to control fidelity and plasticity of gene expression as cells enter and exit mitosis; 2. Contributionsof chromatin remodeling to breast cancer nuclear morphology, metabolism andeffectiveness of chemotherapy; 3. Relationships between fidelity of nuclearorganization and metastasis of breast cancer to bone; 4. Dynamic modifications ofhigher-order inter- and intra-chromosomal interactions in breast cancer cells; 5.Coordinate control of cell growth and phenotype by tissue-specific transcription factors; 6. Oncofetal epigenetic control by bivalent histone modifications thatare functionally related to sustaining the stem cell phenotype; and 7. Noncoding RNA-mediated regulation in the onset and progression of breast cancer. Thediscovery of components to nuclear organization that are functionally related to cancer and compromise gene expression have the potential for translation toinnovative cancer diagnosis and targeted therapy.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jbior.2018.05.001 PMID: 29759441 