38. Iran J Pharm Res. 2018 Winter;17(1):343-352.In-Vitro Anti-Proliferative and Pro-Apoptotic Properties of Sutureja Khuzestanicaon Human Breast Cancer Cell Line (MCF-7) and Its Synergic Effects with AnticancerDrug Vincristine.Esmaeili-Mahani S(1)(2), Samandari-Bahraseman MR(3)(4), Yaghoobi MM(3).Author information: (1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, Shahid Bahonar University ofKerman, Iran.(2)Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Neuroscience Research Center, Institute of Neuropharmacology, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.(3)Research Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Science and High Technologyand Environmental Sciences, Graduate University of Advanced Technology, Kerman,Iran.(4)Razi Herbal Medicines Research Center, Lorestan University of MedicalSciences, Khoramabad, Iran.Satureja khuzestanica Jamzad (Marzeh Khuzestani in Persian) is an endemic plantthat is widely distributed in the southern part of Iran. Despite the number ofpapers published on this plant, no one has focused on its anticancer effects.Therefore, the present study was designed to investigate the selective cytotoxic and anti-proliferative properties of satureja khuzestanica total extract (SKE).MCF-7 human breast cancer cells were used in this study. Cytotoxicity of theextract was determined using MTT and neutral red assaysafter 24 h treatmentperiod. Biochemical markers of apoptosis (caspase-3, Bax, Bcl-2) and cellproliferation (cyclin D1) were evaluated by immunoblotting. Vincristine was used to evaluate the synergic effect of extract with an anticancer drug. The datashowed that treatment of cells with SKE (150 and 200 µg/mL for 24 h)significantly reduced cell viability, activated caspase 3 and increased Bax/Bcl2 ratio. In addition, cyclin D1 expression was significantly decreased in theSKE-treated cells. In addition, concomitant treatment of the MCF-7 cells with SKEand vincristine produced a potent anti-proliferative and pro-apoptotic effectcompared to extract or drug alone. In conclusion, satureja extract has apotential anti-cancer property against human breast cancer cells and itscombination with chemotherapeutic agent vincristine may induce cell deatheffectively and be a potent modality to treat this type of cancer.PMCID: PMC5937104PMID: 29755565 