60. Cancer Treat Rev. 2018 Jun;67:34-44. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.04.010. Epub 2018May 2.The role of PARP inhibition in triple-negative breast cancer: Unraveling the widespectrum of synthetic lethality.Papadimitriou M(1), Mountzios G(2), Papadimitriou CA(3).Author information: (1)Second Department of Surgery, Aretaieion University Hospital, National andKapodistrian University of Athens, Medical School, Athens, Greece. Electronicaddress: chr_papadim@yahoo.gr.(2)Department of Medical Oncology, 251 Airforce General Hospital, Athens, Greece.(3)Second Department of Surgery, Aretaieion University Hospital, National andKapodistrian University of Athens, Medical School, Athens, Greece.Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) accounts for approximately 15-20% of allbreast cancers and is characterized by a lack of immunohistochemical expressionof estrogen receptors (ER), progesterone receptors (PR) and HER2. TNBC isassociated with poor long-term outcomes compared with other breast cancersubtypes. Many of these tumors are also basal-like cancers which arecharacterized by an aggressive biological behavior with a distant recurrence peakobserved early at 3 years following diagnosis. Furthermore, metastatic TNBC bearsa dismal prognosis with an average survival of 12 months. Although the prevalenceof genetic alterations among women with TNBC differs significantly by ethnicity, race and age, BRCA mutations (including both germline mutations and somaticgenetic aberrations) are found in up to 20-25% of unselected patients andespecially in those of the basal-like immunophenotype. Therefore, defects in the DNA repair pathway could represent a promising therapeutic target for thissubgroup of TNBC patients. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors exploit this deficiency through synthetic lethality and have emerged as promisinganticancer therapies, especially in BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation carriers. SeveralPARP inhibitors are currently being evaluated in the adjuvant, neo-adjuvant, and metastatic setting for the treatment of breast cancer patients with a deficienthomologous recombination pathway. In this article, we review the major molecular characteristics of TNBC, the mechanisms of homologous recombination, and the roleof PARP inhibition as an emerging therapeutic strategy.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.04.010 PMID: 29753961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]