113. FASEB J. 2018 May 11:fj201700968R. doi: 10.1096/fj.201700968R. [Epub ahead ofprint]Exercise training during chemotherapy preserves skeletal muscle fiber area,capillarization, and mitochondrial content in patients with breast cancer.Mijwel S(1)(2), Cardinale DA(3), Norrbom J(1), Chapman M(1), Ivarsson N(1),Wengström Y(2)(4), Sundberg CJ(1)(5), Rundqvist H(6).Author information: (1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,Sweden.(2)Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences, and Society, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden.(3)Åstrand Laboratory, The Swedish School of Sport and Health Sciences,Stockholm, Sweden.(4)Cancer Theme, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.(5)Department of Learning, Informatics, Management, and Ethics, KarolinskaInstitutet, Stockholm, Sweden; and.(6)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,Sweden.Exercise has been suggested to ameliorate the detrimental effects of chemotherapyon skeletal muscle. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of differentexercise regimens with usual care on skeletal muscle morphology and mitochondrialmarkers in patients being treated with chemotherapy for breast cancer.Specifically, we compared moderate-intensity aerobic training combined withhigh-intensity interval training (AT-HIIT) and resistance training combined with high-intensity interval training (RT-HIIT) with usual care (UC). Resting skeletalmuscle biopsies were obtained pre- and postintervention from 23 randomly selectedwomen from the OptiTrain breast cancer trial who underwent RT-HIIT, AT-HIIT, orUC for 16 wk. Over the intervention, citrate synthase activity, muscle fibercross-sectional area, capillaries per fiber, and myosin heavy chain isoform type I were reduced in UC, whereas RT-HIIT and AT-HIIT were able to counteract thesedeclines. AT-HIIT promoted up-regulation of the electron transport chain protein levels vs. UC. RT-HIIT favored satellite cell count vs. UC and AT-HIIT. There wasa significant association between change in citrate synthase activity andself-reported fatigue. AT-HIIT and RT-HIIT maintained or improved markers ofskeletal muscle function compared with the declines found in the UC group,indicating a sustained trainability in addition to the preservation of skeletalmuscle structural and metabolic characteristics during chemotherapy. Thesefindings highlight the importance of supervised exercise programs for patientswith breast cancer during chemotherapy.-Mijwel, S., Cardinale, D. A., Norrbom,J., Chapman, M., Ivarsson, N., Wengström, Y., Sundberg, C. J., Rundqvist, H.Exercise training during chemotherapy preserves skeletal muscle fiber area,capillarization, and mitochondrial content in patients with breast cancer.DOI: 10.1096/fj.201700968R PMID: 29750574 