98. J Med Case Rep. 2018 May 12;12(1):123. doi: 10.1186/s13256-018-1635-x.An unusual finding in a desmoid-type fibromatosis of the pancreas: a case report and review of the literature.Torres JC(1), Xin C(2).Author information: (1)Department of Endocrine and Breast Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital ofChongqing Medical University, No.1 Yixueyuan Rd, Yuzhong District, Chongqing,400016, People's Republic of China. joectorres@gmail.com.(2)Department of Endocrine and Breast Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital ofChongqing Medical University, No.1 Yixueyuan Rd, Yuzhong District, Chongqing,400016, People's Republic of China.BACKGROUND: Desmoid-type fibromatoses are rare benign and fibrous tumors thataccount for approximately 0.03% of total neoplasms. Within this category ofneoplasms, pancreatic desmoid-type fibromatosis is an extremely rare subgroup,accounting for approximately 5% of desmoid-type fibromatoses. Although theetiology is unknown, some risk factors include trauma, surgery, family history ofdesmoid tumor, pregnancy, use of contraceptives, genetic mutation, and familialadenomatous polyposis or Gardner syndrome. Desmoid-type tumors are primarilydiagnosed by pathological and immunohistochemical studies. The treatment ofchoice is surgical resection of the tumor. Systemic chemotherapy and radiotherapyare optional treatment approaches for patients with high risk for surgery. Thefollowing is a report of an unusual case of a pancreatic desmoid-typefibromatosis in which a very rare variation in the immunohistochemistry findings was demonstrated: slides were immunopositive for S100 protein and notimmunonegative. Most desmoid tumors are immunonegative for S100 protein with justa few cases being positive for this protein.CASE PRESENTATION: We describe the case of a 15-year-old boy, a Chinese national,who was diagnosed as having a pancreatic desmoid-type fibromatosis. He was ahealthy individual who was incidentally diagnosed with an abdominal mass. Hischief complaints were mild generalized abdominal pain for 1 week, nausea,vomiting, and a low-grade fever. An enhanced computed tomography scan of hisabdomen showed a large cystic mass in the anterior surface of the body of hispancreas. He underwent a radical resection of the pancreatic mass, partialpancreatectomy, splenectomy, segmental resection of transverse colon and distaljejunum, and subsequently a one-stage jejunojejunostomy and colonic anastomosis. Postoperatively, he was diagnosed as having a desmoid-type fibromatosis of thepancreas by pathological and immunohistochemical studies.CONCLUSIONS: The diagnosis of desmoid-type fibromatosis is usually incidental andchallenging. Pathological and immunohistochemical testing are essential forconfirming diagnosis where demonstration of β-catenin nuclear staining isprobably the single most important characteristic. Other markers, such asvimentin, are usually positive, while S100 protein is usually negative. Our case however, confirms that there are rare cases that can be S100 positive. This isthe first diagnosed case of pancreatic desmoid-type fibromatosis with S100protein positivity.DOI: 10.1186/s13256-018-1635-x PMCID: PMC5948877PMID: 29751773 