200. Cancer Sci. 2018 Jul;109(7):2275-2285. doi: 10.1111/cas.13637. Epub 2018 Jun 19.Concomitant administration of radiation with eribulin improves the survival ofmice harboring intracerebral glioblastoma.Miki S(1)(2)(3), Imamichi S(4), Fujimori H(4), Tomiyama A(2)(5), FujimotoK(2)(6), Satomi K(2)(7), Matsushita Y(1)(2), Matsuzaki S(1)(2), TakahashiM(1)(2), Ishikawa E(3), Yamamoto T(3)(8), Matsumura A(3), Mukasa A(6)(9),Nishikawa R(10), Masutomi K(11), Narita Y(1), Masutani M(4)(12), Ichimura K(2).Author information: (1)Department of Neurosurgery and Neuro-Oncology, National Cancer CenterHospital, Tokyo, Japan.(2)Division of Brain Tumor Translational Research, National Cancer CenterResearch Institute, Tokyo, Japan.(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba,Ibaraki, Japan.(4)Division of Chemotherapy and Clinical Research, National Cancer CenterResearch Institute, Tokyo, Japan.(5)Department of Neurosurgery, National Defense Medical College, Tokorozawa,Japan.(6)Department of Neurosurgery Graduate School of Medical Sciences, KumamotoUniversity, Kumamoto, Japan.(7)Department of Pathology and Clinical Laboratories, National Cancer CenterHospital, Tokyo, Japan.(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama CityUniversity, Yokohama, Japan.(9)Department of Neurosurgery, the University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.(10)Department of Neuro-Oncology/Neurosurgery, Saitama Medical UniversityInternational Medical Center, Hidaka, Japan.(11)Division of Cancer Stem Cell, National Cancer Center Research Institute,Tokyo, Japan.(12)Department of Frontier Life Sciences, Nagasaki University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagasaki, Japan.Glioblastoma is the most common and devastating type of malignant brain tumor. Werecently found that eribulin suppresses glioma growth in vitro and in vivo andthat eribulin is efficiently transferred into mouse brain tumors at a highconcentration. Eribulin is a non-taxane microtubule inhibitor approved for breastcancer and liposarcoma. Cells arrested in M-phase by chemotherapeutic agents suchas microtubule inhibitors are highly sensitive to radiation-induced DNA damage.Several recent case reports have demonstrated the clinical benefits of eribulincombined with radiation therapy for metastatic brain tumors. In this study, weinvestigated the efficacy of a combined eribulin and radiation treatment on humanglioblastoma cells. The glioblastoma cell lines U87MG, U251MG and U118MG, andSJ28 cells, a patient-derived sphere culture cell line, were used to determinethe radiosensitizing effect of eribulin using western blotting, flow cytometryand clonogenic assay. Subcutaneous and intracerebral glioma xenografts weregenerated in mice to assess the efficacy of the combined treatment. Thecombination of eribulin and radiation enhanced DNA damage in vitro. Theclonogenic assay of U87MG demonstrated the radiosensitizing effect of eribulin.The concomitant eribulin and radiation treatment significantly prolonged thesurvival of mice harboring intracerebral glioma xenografts compared with eribulinor radiation alone (P < .0001). In addition, maintenance administration oferibulin after the concomitant treatment further controlled brain tumor growth.Aberrant microvasculature was decreased in these tumors. Concomitant treatmentwith eribulin and radiation followed by maintenance administration of eribulinmay serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for glioblastomas.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.DOI: 10.1111/cas.13637 PMCID: PMC6029838PMID: 29758120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]