81. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2018 May 11;19(6):30. doi: 10.1007/s11864-018-0547-8.Anthracycline Use for Early Stage Breast Cancer in the Modern Era: a Review.Jasra S(1)(2), Anampa J(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Section of Breast Medical Oncology, Montefiore MedicalCenter, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.(2)Department of Medicine, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.(3)Department of Oncology, Section of Breast Medical Oncology, Montefiore MedicalCenter, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.janampa@montefiore.org.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert EinsteinCollege of Medicine, 1695 Eastchester Rd., Bronx, NY, 10461, USA.janampa@montefiore.org.OPINION STATEMENT: Anthracycline-based regimens have been an important treatment component for patients with breast cancer. As demonstrated in the last EarlyBreast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group (EBCTCG) meta-analysis,anthracycline-based regimens decrease breast cancer mortality by 20-30%.Anthracycline toxicities include the rare-but potential morbid-cardiotoxicity or leukemogenic effect, and the almost universal-but very distressing-alopecia. Due to potential toxicities, and large number of patients being exposed, severalworldwide trials have re-examined the role of anthracycline-based regimens in themanagement of breast cancer. Current literature supports that anthracyclines are not required for all patients with breast cancer and should be avoided in thosewith high cardiac risk. Recent results from the ABC trials suggest thatanthracyclines should not be spared for patients with triple negative breastcancer (regardless of axillary node involvement) or HER2-/ER+ with significantnode involvement. Based on current literature, for HER2-negative patients withlow-risk breast cancer, anthracyclines could be spared with regimens such ascyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) or docetaxel andcyclophosphamide (TC). Patients with intermediate or high-risk breast cancershould be considered for anthracycline-based regimens based on other factors suchas age, comorbidities, tumor grade, lymphovascular invasion, and genomicprofiling. Patients with HER2-positive breast cancer with low risk could betreated with paclitaxel and trastuzumab. For the remaining patients with HER2overexpression, while docetaxel, carboplatin, and trastuzumab (TCH) hasdemonstrated to improve disease-free survival (DFS), anthracycline-containingregimens should be discussed, especially for those with very high-risk breastcancer. Although several biomarkers, such as topoisomerase II (TOP2A) andchromosome 17 centromeric duplication (Ch17CEP) have been proposed to predictbenefit from anthracycline regimens, further research is required to delineatetheir proper utility in the clinical setting.DOI: 10.1007/s11864-018-0547-8 PMID: 29752560 