181. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2018 Jun;126:13-18. doi:10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.03.018. Epub 2018 Mar 29.Prognostic and predictive factors in patients with brain metastases from solidtumors: A review of published nomograms.Nieder C(1), Mehta MP(2), Geinitz H(3), Grosu AL(4).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology and Palliative Medicine, Nordland Hospital, 8092 Bodø, Norway; Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, Universityof Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway. Electronic address: carsten.nieder@nlsh.no.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Miami Cancer Institute, Miami, FL, USA.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, St. Vincent's Hospital, Linz, Austria.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Medical Center, Medical Faculty, University of Freiburg, Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK) Partner SiteFreiburg, Germany.OBJECTIVE: To review published nomograms that predict endpoints such as overallsurvival (OS) or risk of intracranial relapse in patients with brain metastasesfrom solid tumors.METHODS: The methods and results of nomogram studies identified by a systematicsearch were extracted and compared, stratified by endpoint predicted by therespective nomograms. In particular, validation strategies (external/internal),concordance indices (cut-off 0.75) and comparisons to older models were analyzed.RESULTS: Six publications reported on prediction of OS. Most of these analysesfocused on one particular primary tumor site, e.g., breast cancer orhepatocellular carcinoma, while the largest study included different primarytumor sites. The median number of patients was 244. Three of six studies includedexternal validation cohorts. With few exceptions, concordance indices <0.75 were reported. In all studies reporting this endpoint, the nomogram outperformed olderprognostic scores. Two nomograms focused on development of new brain metastasesafter radiosurgery (one externally validated), one on survival free from salvage whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) after radiosurgery, and one on neurologic andnon-neurologic death in patients receiving radiosurgery after WBRT failure. Allconcordance indices of these 4 nomograms were <0.70.CONCLUSION: Taking into account concordance indices and comparisons to olderprognostic models, the most promising, externally validated nomograms are thebreast cancer and the non-small cell lung cancer nomogram predicting OS, and the distant brain failure after radiosurgery nomogram. Additional validation studies as well as continuous monitoring of the models' performance appear necessary toensure their clinical applicability in the present era of rapidly changingtreatment paradigms.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2018.03.018 PMID: 29759555  [Indexed for MEDLINE]