179. J Hazard Mater. 2018 Sep 15;358:503-507. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2018.05.010. Epub2018 May 5.Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based metabolomics and lipidomics reveal toxicological mechanisms of bisphenol F in breast cancer xenografts.Zhao C(1), Xie P(2), Wang H(3), Cai Z(4).Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory of Environmental and Biological Analysis, Department ofChemistry, Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region;State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, ResearchCenter for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing,China.(2)State Key Laboratory of Environmental and Biological Analysis, Department ofChemistry, Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.(3)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, ResearchCenter for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing,China.(4)State Key Laboratory of Environmental and Biological Analysis, Department ofChemistry, Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.Electronic address: zwcai@hkbu.edu.hk.Bisphenol F (BPF) is a major alternative to bisphenol (BPA) and has been widelyused. Although BPA exposure is known to generate various toxic effects, toxicity of BPF remains under-explored. A comprehensive method involving mass spectrometry(MS)-based global lipidomics and metabolomics, and matrix-assisted laserdesorption/ionization-mass spectrometry (MALDI)- MS imaging (MSI) was used tostudy toxic effects of BPF and the underlying mechanisms on tumormetastasis-related tissues (liver and kidney) in breast cancer xenografts. Ourresults demonstrated that BPF exposure disturbed the metabolome and lipidome ofliver and kidney. Exposure induced reprogramming of the glutathione (GSH)biosynthesis and glycolytic metabolism by activating glycine, serine, cysteine,glutamine, lactate and pyruvate in liver and kidney tissues. It also perturbedthe biosynthesis and degradation of glycerophospholipids (GPs) and glycerolipids (GLs), resulting in abnormality of membrane homeostasis and cellular functions inkidney tissues. Moreover, spatial distribution and profile of metabolites changedacross renal cortex and medulla regions after BPF treatment. Levels ofphosphatidylethanolamines (PE) and triacylglycerols (TAG) increased in renalmedulla and pelvis, while the levels of phosphatidylcholines (PC) andphosphatidylinositols (PI) increased in cortex and pelvis. These observationsoffer a deeper understanding of critical role of metabolites and lipidreprogramming in BPF-induced biological effects.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2018.05.010 PMID: 29759594 