195. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Aug;104:45-51. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.05.002. Epub 2018 May 11.Anti-tumor effects of propranolol: Adjuvant activity on a transplanted murinebreast cancer model.Ashrafi S(1), Shapouri R(2), Shirkhani A(3), Mahdavi M(4).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Sciences, Faculty of Advanced Sciences & Technology, Islamic Azad University, Pharmaceutical Sciences Branch, (IAUPS),Tehran, Iran.(2)Biology Research Center Zanjan Branch, Islamic Azad University, Zanjan, Iran.(3)Department of Immunology, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.(4)Department of Immunology, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran; RecombinantVaccine Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.Electronic address: M_Mahdavi@pasteur.ac.ir.Propranolol (Pro), a non-specific β-adrenergic blocking drug, competitivelyprevents the binding of catecholamines to receptors and suppresses cancer cells. The anti-tumor activity of propranolol has been proved in different kinds ofcancers. In this study, we assessed the adjuvant activity of propranolol combinedwith a tumor vaccine model on the immunological parameters of breasttumor-bearing mice. Breast tumor pieces were implanted into the flank of inbredBALB/C female mice from stock mice. Tumor-bearing mice were treated with tumorantigen lysate vaccine and propranolol/Vaccine (Pro/Vac) combination (astreatment groups), propranolol and PBS (as control groups) for 5 consecutivedays, every 12 h. Moreover, all experimental groups received vaccine for threetimes with one-week interval via s.c injection. After immunization courses,spleens of tumor-bearing mice were removed and dissected, cell suspension wasstimulated in vitro, and the cytokine levels in supernatant of splenocytes weremeasured via commercial ELISA kits. Compared with the vaccine group, immunizationwith tumor lysate in combination with propranolol significantly increased IL-2,IL-4, IL-12, IL-17, and IFN-γ cytokines. Considering the suppression of tumorgrowth, propranolol seems to be a potent immunomodulator capable of inducingcellular immune responses against breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.05.002 PMID: 29758415 