16. Electrophoresis. 2018 May 13. doi: 10.1002/elps.201800025. [Epub ahead of print]Comparative two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) of humanmilk to identify dysregulated proteins in breast cancer.Aslebagh R(1), Channaveerappa D(1), Arcaro KF(2), Darie CC(1).Author information: (1)Biochemistry & Proteomics Group, Department of Chemistry & BiomolecularScience, Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY, USA.(2)Department of Veterinary & Animal Sciences, University of MassachusettsAmherst, Amherst, MA, USA.Breast cancer (BC) remains a major cause of mortality, and early detection isconsidered important for reducing BC-associated deaths. Early detection of BC is challenging in young women, due to the limitations of mammography on the densebreast tissue of young women. We recently reported results of a pilot proteomics study, using one-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (1D-PAGE) andmass spectrometry (MS) to investigate differences in milk proteins from womenwith and without BC. Here, we applied two-dimensional polyacrylamide gelelectrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and MS to compare the protein pattern in milk from the breasts of a single woman who was diagnosed with BC in one breast 24 months afterdonating her milk. Statistically different gel spots were picked for proteindigestion followed by nanoliquid chromatography tandem MS (nanoLC-MS/MS)analysis. The upregulated proteins in BC versus control are alpha-amylase,gelsolin isoform a precursor, alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 zinc isoform CRA_b partial, apoptosis-inducing factor 2 and vitronectin. Several proteins were downregulated in the milk of the breast later diagnosed with cancer as compared to the milkfrom the healthy breast, including different isoforms of albumin, cholesterolesterase, different isoforms of lactoferrin, different proteins from the caseinfamily and different isoforms of lysozyme. Results warrant further studies todetermine the usefulness of these milk proteins for assessing risk and detecting occult disease. MS data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifierPXD009860.© 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.DOI: 10.1002/elps.201800025 PMID: 29756217 