43. Front Immunol. 2018 Apr 16;9:638. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00638. eCollection2018.Immunization Elicits Antigen-Specific Antibody Sequestration in Dorsal RootGanglia Sensory Neurons.Gunasekaran M(1), Chatterjee PK(1), Shih A(2), Imperato GH(1)(3), Addorisio M(1),Kumar G(1)(3), Lee A(2)(3)(4), Graf JF(5), Meyer D(5), Marino M(5), Puleo C(5),Ashe J(5), Cox MA(6), Mak TW(6), Bouton C(7), Sherry B(3)(4)(8), DiamondB(3)(4)(9), Andersson U(10), Coleman TR(11), Metz CN(1)(3)(4), TraceyKJ(1)(3)(4)(7), Chavan SS(1)(3)(4)(7).Author information: (1)Center for Biomedical Science, Feinstein Institute for Medical Research,Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY, United States.(2)Center for Genomics and Human Genetics, Feinstein Institute for MedicalResearch, Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY, United States.(3)Elmezzi Graduate School, Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, NorthwellHealth, Manhasset, NY, United States.(4)Donald and Barbara Zucker School of Medicine at Hofstra/Northwell, Hempstead, NY, United States.(5)GE Global Research Center, Niskayuna, NY, United States.(6)The Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, University HealthNetwork, Toronto, ON, Canada.(7)Center for Bioelectronic Medicine, Feinstein Institute for Medical Research,Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY, United States.(8)Center for Immunology and Inflammation, Feinstein Institute for MedicalResearch, Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY, United States.(9)Center for Autoimmune, Musculoskeletal and Hematopoietic Diseases, FeinsteinInstitute for Medical Research, Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY, United States.(10)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institutet, Solna,Sweden.(11)Center for Molecular Innovation, Feinstein Institute for Medical Research,Northwell Health, Manhasset, NY, United States.The immune and nervous systems are two major organ systems responsible for hostdefense and memory. Both systems achieve memory and learning that can beretained, retrieved, and utilized for decades. Here, we report the surprisingdiscovery that peripheral sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) ofimmunized mice contain antigen-specific antibodies. Using a combination ofrigorous molecular genetic analyses, transgenic mice, and adoptive transferexperiments, we demonstrate that DRGs do not synthesize these antigen-specificantibodies, but rather sequester primarily IgG1 subtype antibodies. As revealedby RNA-seq and targeted quantitative PCR (qPCR), dorsal root ganglion (DRG)sensory neurons harvested from either naïve or immunized mice lack enzymes (i.e.,RAG1, RAG2, AID, or UNG) required for generating antibody diversity and,therefore, cannot make antibodies. Additionally, transgenic mice that express areporter fluorescent protein under the control of Igγ1 constant region fail toexpress Ighg1 transcripts in DRG sensory neurons. Furthermore, neuralsequestration of antibodies occurs in mice rendered deficient in neuronal Rag2,but antibody sequestration is not observed in DRG sensory neurons isolated frommice that lack mature B cells [e.g., Rag1 knock out (KO) or μMT mice]. Finally,adoptive transfer of Rag1-deficient bone marrow (BM) into wild-type (WT) mice or WT BM into Rag1 KO mice revealed that antibody sequestration was observed in DRG sensory neurons of chimeric mice with WT BM but not with Rag1-deficient BM.Together, these results indicate that DRG sensory neurons sequester and retainantigen-specific antibodies released by antibody-secreting plasma cells. Couplingthis work with previous studies implicating DRG sensory neurons in regulatingantigen trafficking during immunization raises the interesting possibility thatthe nervous system collaborates with the immune system to regulateantigen-mediated responses.DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00638 PMCID: PMC5932385PMID: 29755449 