105. J Theor Biol. 2018 Sep 7;452:56-68. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2018.05.003. Epub 2018May 8.Modeling triple-negative breast cancer heterogeneity: Effects of stromalmacrophages, fibroblasts and tumor vasculature.Norton KA(1), Jin K(2), Popel AS(3).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedical Engineering. Electronic address: knorton@bard.edu.(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering; Department of Pharmaceutical Science,Albany College of Pharmacy and Health Science, USA.(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering; Department of Oncology and the SidneyKimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University,USA.A hallmark of breast tumors is its spatial heterogeneity that includes itsdistribution of cancer stem cells and progenitor cells, but also heterogeneity inthe tumor microenvironment. In this study we focus on the contributions ofstromal cells, specifically macrophages, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells ontumor progression. We develop a computational model of triple-negative breastcancer based on our previous work and expand it to include macrophageinfiltration, fibroblasts, and angiogenesis. In vitro studies have shown that thesecretomes of tumor-educated macrophages and fibroblasts increase both themigration and proliferation rates of triple-negative breast cancer cells. In vivostudies also demonstrated that blocking signaling of selected secreted factorsinhibits tumor growth and metastasis in mouse xenograft models. We investigatethe influences of increased migration and proliferation rates on tumor growth,the effect of the presence on fibroblasts or macrophages on growth andmorphology, and the contributions of macrophage infiltration on tumor growth. We find that while the presence of macrophages increases overall tumor growth, theincrease in macrophage infiltration does not substantially increase tumor growth and can even stifle tumor growth at excessive rates.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2018.05.003 PMID: 29750999 