191. Breast. 2018 Aug;40:116-122. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.05.003. Epub 2018 May 11.Patients' perspectives and experiences concerning barriers to accessinginformation about bilateral prophylactic mastectomy.Glassey R(1), O'Connor M(2), Ives A(3), Saunders C(4), kConFab Investigators(5), O'Sullivan S(6), Hardcastle SJ(2).Author information: (1)Medical School, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, The University ofWestern Australia, Perth, Australia. Electronic address:rachael.glassey@research.uwa.edu.au.(2)School of Psychology and Speech Pathology, Curtin University, Perth,Australia.(3)CaPCREU, Medical School, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, TheUniversity of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.(4)Medical School, Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, The University ofWestern Australia, Perth, Australia.(5)KConFab, Research Department, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne,Australia; The Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology University ofMelbourne, Parkville, Australia.(6)Genetic Services of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.PURPOSE: To explore the barriers and experiences of accessing information forwomen who have received genetic risk assessment/testing results for breast cancer(BC) and are considering a bilateral prophylactic mastectomy (BPM) and, exploringparticipants' preferences concerning information and support needs.METHODS: A qualitative retrospective study guided by interpretativephenomenological analysis was utilised. Semi-structured interviews were conductedwith forty-six women who were either considering BPM or had already undergone thesurgery.RESULTS: Three themes identified barriers to accessing information; difficulties accessing information, inconsistent information and clinical focus/medicalizedinformation. A fourth theme - preferences of information and support needs,identified three subthemes; these were, psychological support, clearly definedprocesses and photos of mastectomies/reconstruction surgeries.CONCLUSIONS: Barriers to accessing information appeared to be widespread. A lack of integrated services contributed to inconsistent information, and medicalizedterminology/clinical focus of consultations further complicated understanding.Preferences for information include clearly defined processes, so women know the pathways after confirmation of familial BC risk. Clinical implications include a multidisciplinary team approach, and a protocol that reflects current practice.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.05.003 PMID: 29758504 