104. Palliat Support Care. 2018 May 16:1-6. doi: 10.1017/S1478951518000135. [Epubahead of print]A qualitative examination of the factors related to the development andmaintenance of insomnia in cancer survivors.Garland SN(1), Barg FK(2), Cakouros B(2), Gehrman P(3), DuHamel KN(4), Mao JJ(5).Author information: (1)Departments of Psychology and Oncology,Memorial University of Newfoundland,St.John's,Newfoundland,Canada.(2)Department of Family Medicine and Community Health,Perelman School of Medicineat the University of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia,Pennsylvania.(3)Department of Psychiatry,Perelman School of Medicine at the University ofPennsylvania,Philadelphia,Pennsylvania.(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences,Memorial Sloan-KetteringCancer Center,New York,New York.(5)The Bendheim Center for Integrative Medicine,Memorial Sloan-Kettering CancerCenter,New York,New York.OBJECTIVE: Insomnia is underrecognized and inadequately managed, with close to60% of cancer survivors experiencing insomnia at some point in the treatmenttrajectory. The objective of this study was to further understand predisposing,precipitating, and perpetuating factors in the development and maintenance ofinsomnia in cancer survivors.METHOD: A heterogeneous sample of 63 patients who had completed active treatment was recruited. Participants were required to have a score >7 on the InsomniaSeverity Index and meet the diagnostic criteria for insomnia disorder.Open-ended, semistructured interviews were conducted to elicit participants'experiences with sleep problems. An a priori set of codes and a set of codes thatemerged from the data were used to analyze the data.ResultThe mean age of thesample was 60.5 years, with 30% identifying as non-white and 59% reporting their sex as female. The cancer types represented were heterogeneous with the two most common being breast (30%) and prostate (21%). Participants described an inheritedrisk for insomnia, anxious temperament, and insufficient ability to relax aspredisposing factors. Respondents were split as to whether they classified their cancer diagnosis as the precipitating factor for their insomnia. Participantsreported several behaviors that are known to perpetuate problems with sleepincluding napping, using back-lit electronics before bed, and poor sleep hygiene.One of the most prominent themes identified was the use of sleeping medications. Participants reported that they were reluctant to take medication but felt thatit was the only option to treat their insomnia and that it was encouraged bytheir doctors.Significance of resultsInsomnia is a prevalent, but highlytreatable, disorder in cancer survivors. Patients and provider education isneeded to change individual and organizational behaviors that contribute to thedevelopment and maintenance of insomnia and increase access to evidence-basednonpharmacological interventions.DOI: 10.1017/S1478951518000135 PMID: 29764524 