114. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2018 May 15;5:CD008830. doi:10.1002/14651858.CD008830.pub3.Hormone replacement therapy for women previously treated for endometrial cancer.Edey KA(1), Rundle S, Hickey M.Author information: (1)Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, Barrack Road, Exeter, UK, EX2 5DW.BACKGROUND: Endometrial cancer is the sixth most common cancer in women worldwideand most commonly occurs after the menopause (75%) (globocan.iarc.fr). About319,000 new cases were diagnosed worldwide in 2012. Endometrial cancer iscommonly considered as a potentially 'curable cancer,' as approximately 75% ofcases are diagnosed before disease has spread outside the uterus (FIGO(International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics) stage I). The overallfive-year survival for all stages is about 86%, and, if the cancer is confined tothe uterus, the five-year survival rate may increase to 97%. The majority ofwomen diagnosed with endometrial cancer have early-stage disease, leading to agood prognosis after hysterectomy and removal of the ovaries (oophorectomy), withor without radiotherapy. However, women may have early physiological andpsychological postmenopausal changes, either pre-existing or as a result ofoophorectomy, depending on age and menopausal status at the time of diagnosis.Lack of oestrogen can cause hot flushes, night sweats, genital tract atrophy and longer-term adverse effects, such as osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease.These changes may be temporarily managed by using oestrogens, in the form ofhormone replacement therapy (HRT). However, there is a theoretical risk ofpromoting residual tumour cell growth and increasing cancer recurrence.Therefore, this is a potential survival disadvantage in a woman who has apotentially curable cancer. In premenopausal women with endometrial cancer,treatment induces early menopause and this may adversely affect overall survival.Additionally, most women with early-stage disease will be cured of their cancer, making longer-term quality of life (QoL) issues more pertinent. Followingbilateral oophorectomy, premenopausal women may develop significant anddebilitating menopausal symptoms, so there is a need for information about therisk and benefits of taking HRT, enabling women to make an informed decision,weighing the advantages and disadvantages of using HRT for their individualcircumstances.OBJECTIVES: To assess the risks and benefits of HRT (oestrogen alone or oestrogenwith progestogen) for women previously treated for endometrial cancer.SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL2017, Issue 5), MEDLINE (1946 to April, week 4, 2017) and Embase (1980 to 2017,week 18). We also searched registers of clinical trials, abstracts of scientific meetings and reference lists of review articles.SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), in alllanguages, that examined the efficacy of symptom relief and the safety of usingHRT in women treated for endometrial cancer, where safety in this situation wasconsidered as not increasing the risk of recurrence of endometrial cancer abovethat of women not taking HRT.DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed whetherpotentially relevant studies met the inclusion criteria. We used standardmethodological procedures expected by Cochrane.MAIN RESULTS: We identified 2190 unique records, evaluated the full text of sevenstudies and included one study with 1236 participants. This study reported tumourrecurrence in 2.3% of women in the oestrogen arm versus 1.9% of women receivingplacebo (risk ratio (RR) 1.17, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.54 to 2.50; verylow-certainty evidence). The study reported one woman in the HRT arm (0.16%) and three women in the placebo arm (0.49%) who developed breast cancer (newmalignancy) during follow-up (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.32 to 2.01; 1236 participants, 1 study; very low-certainty evidence). The study did not report on symptom relief, overall survival or progression-free survival for HRT versus placebo. However,they did report the percentage of women alive with no evidence of disease (94.3% in the HRT group and 95.6% in the placebo group) and the percentage of womenalive irrespective of disease progression (95.8% in the HRT group and 96.9% inthe placebo group) at the end of the 36 months' follow-up. The study did notreport time to recurrence and it was underpowered due to closing early. Theauthors closed it as a result of the publication of the Women's Health Initiative(WHI) study, which, at that time, suggested that risks of exogenous hormonetherapy outweighed benefits and had an impact on study recruitment. No assessmentof efficacy was reported.AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Currently, there is insufficient high-quality evidence toinform women considering HRT after treatment for endometrial cancer. Theavailable evidence (both the single RCT and non-randomised evidence) does notsuggest significant harm, if HRT is used after surgical treatment for early-stageendometrial cancer. There is no information available regarding use of HRT inhigher-stage endometrial cancer (FIGO stage II and above). The use of HRT afterendometrial cancer treatment should be individualised, taking account of thewoman's symptoms and preferences, and the uncertainty of evidence for and againstHRT use.DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD008830.pub3 PMID: 29763969  [Indexed for MEDLINE]