46. PLoS One. 2018 May 16;13(5):e0197156. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197156.eCollection 2018.Sonographic visualization of nipple blood flow can help differentiate Pagetdisease from benign eczematous nipple lesions.Ogata H(1), Mitsuzuka Y(2), Honma N(3), Yoshida M(1), Sumazaki M(1), Saito F(1), Kobayashi M(4), Shibuya K(5), Mikami T(3), Kaneko H(1).Author information: (1)Division of Breast and Endocrine Surgery (Omori), Department of Surgery,School of Medicine, Toho University, Omorinishi, Ota-ku, Tokyo, Japan.(2)Department of Clinical Physiology, Toho University Medical Center OmoriHospital, Omorinishi, Ota-ku, Tokyo, Japan.(3)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, Toho University, Omorinishi,Ota-ku, Tokyo, Japan.(4)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, Toho University, Omorinishi,Ota-ku, Tokyo, Japan.(5)Department of Surgical Pathology, School of Medicine, Toho University,Omorinishi, Ota-ku, Tokyo, Japan.PURPOSE: Paget disease of the breast is a rare cancer that originates from thenipple-areolar complex. It is often overlooked and misdiagnosed as benign chroniceczema of the nipple. We aimed to retrospectively verify whether blood flowanalysis using Doppler sonography was useful for detecting the presence of Paget disease.METHODS: In this retrospective study, 12 patients with pathologically provenunilateral nipple eczematous lesions (seven with Paget disease and five withsimple dermatitis) were included. Nipple blood flow signal was observed usingDoppler sonography, and the detected blood flow signals were quantified usingdigitally recorded images. Quantified blood flow ratio and pathologicallyexamined capillary density were evaluated between affected and unaffectednipples. Findings of mammography, grayscale sonography, and contrast-enhancedmagnetic resonance imaging (CE-MRI) were reviewed.RESULTS: In patients with Paget disease, Doppler effects in the affected nipplewere more clearly visible than those in the unaffected nipple. These effects weresufficiently visible to identify Paget disease. No obvious effects were observed in the affected and unaffected nipples of simple dermatitis. The quantified bloodflow ratio and pathologically examined capillary density were significantlyhigher for the Paget lesion than those for the non-Paget lesion. The sensitivity of CE-MRI and Doppler sonography was markedly correlated, revealing blood flowchanges in the nipple lesions of Paget disease.CONCLUSION: Doppler sonography visualized the proliferation of blood vessels inPaget lesions. The visualization of increased nipple blood flow using Dopplersonography is a simple and low-cost method that provides useful data foridentifying Paget disease during routine medical care.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197156 PMCID: PMC5955580PMID: 29768474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]