101. JMIR Cancer. 2018 May 15;4(1):e10. doi: 10.2196/cancer.9050.Assessing Unmet Information Needs of Breast Cancer Survivors: Exploratory Studyof Online Health Forums Using Text Classification and Retrieval.McRoy S(1), Rastegar-Mojarad M(2), Wang Y(2), Ruddy KJ(2), Haddad TC(2), LiuH(2).Author information: (1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University ofWisconsin-Milwaukee, Milwaukee, WI, United States.(2)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, United States.BACKGROUND: Patient education materials given to breast cancer survivors may not be a good fit for their information needs. Needs may change over time, beforgotten, or be misreported, for a variety of reasons. An automated contentanalysis of survivors' postings to online health forums can identify expressedinformation needs over a span of time and be repeated regularly at low cost.Identifying these unmet needs can guide improvements to existing educationmaterials and the creation of new resources.OBJECTIVE: The primary goals of this project are to assess the unmet information needs of breast cancer survivors from their own perspectives and to identify gapsbetween information needs and current education materials.METHODS: This approach employs computational methods for content modeling andsupervised text classification to data from online health forums to identifyexplicit and implicit requests for health-related information. Potential gapsbetween needs and education materials are identified using techniques frominformation retrieval.RESULTS: We provide a new taxonomy for the classification of sentences in online health forum data. 260 postings from two online health forums were selected,yielding 4179 sentences for coding. After annotation of data and trainingalternative one-versus-others classifiers, a random forest-based approachachieved F1 scores from 66% (Other, dataset2) to 90% (Medical, dataset1) on theprimary information types. 136 expressions of need were used to generate queries to indexed education materials. Upon examination of the best two pages retrieved for each query, 12% (17/136) of queries were found to have relevant content byall coders, and 33% (45/136) were judged to have relevant content by at leastone.CONCLUSIONS: Text from online health forums can be analyzed effectively usingautomated methods. Our analysis confirms that breast cancer survivors have manyinformation needs that are not covered by the written documents they typicallyreceive, as our results suggest that at most a third of breast cancer survivors' questions would be addressed by the materials currently provided to them.©Susan McRoy, Majid Rastegar-Mojarad, Yanshan Wang, Kathryn J. Ruddy, Tufia C.Haddad, Hongfang Liu. Originally published in JMIR Cancer(http://cancer.jmir.org), 15.05.2018.DOI: 10.2196/cancer.9050 PMCID: PMC5974460PMID: 29764801 