45. PLoS One. 2018 May 16;13(5):e0197064. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197064.eCollection 2018.Conjugated equine estrogen and medroxyprogesterone acetate are associated withdecreased risk of breast cancer relative to bioidentical hormone therapy andcontrols.Zeng Z(1), Jiang X(2), Li X(3), Wells A(4), Luo Y(1), Neapolitan R(1).Author information: (1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, United States of America.(2)Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,Pennsylvania, United States of America.(3)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard T.H. Chan School ofPublic Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.(4)Department of Pathology, University of Pittsburgh and Pittsburgh VA HealthSystem, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States of America.OBJECTIVE: By the 1990s it became popular for women to use hormone therapy (HT)to ease menopause symptoms. Bioidentical estrogen and progesterone aresupplements whose molecular structures are identical to what is made in the humanbody, while synthetic supplements are ones whose structures are not. After theWomen's Health Initiative found that the combined use of the syntheticsconjugated equine estrogen (CEE) and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) increased breast cancer risk, prescriptions for synthetic HT declined considerably. Sincethen there has been an increased interest in bioidentical HT; today there are aplethora of websites touting their benefits. However, no peer-reviewed articlessupport these claims. We performed a retrospective study with the objective ofverifying the hypothesis that bioidentical HT is associated with decreased breastcancer risk than CEE & MPA.METHODS: We searched The Northwestern Medicine Enterprise Data Warehouse forwomen who initiated HT use after age 50. Women who did not take any HT drug afterage 50 served as controls. Nine HT protocols were investigated for breast cancer risk.RESULTS: Significant results include CEE Alone is associated with decreasedbreast cancer risk (HR = 0.31), Other Synthetic Estrogen Alone is associated withincreased breast cancer risk (HR = 1.49), Bioidentical Estrogen Alone isassociated with decreased breast cancer risk(HR = 0.65), CEE & MPA is associated with reduced breast cancer risk (HR = 0.43), and CEE & MPA is associated withreduced breast cancer risk relative to Bioidentical Estrogen & Progesterone (HR =0.25).DISCUSSION: Our results indicate CEE & MPA is superior to bioidentical HT as far as breast cancer risk. Furthermore, this combination is associated with decrease of breast cancer risk, contrary to previous findings. Additional retrospectivestudies are needed to confirm our results.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197064 PMCID: PMC5955567PMID: 29768475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]