68. J Biomed Opt. 2018 May;23(9):1-11. doi: 10.1117/1.JBO.23.9.091410.Multimodal approach in assessment of the response of breast cancer to neoadjuvantchemotherapy.Pavlov MV(1), Kalganova TI(2), Lyubimtseva YS(3), Plekhanov VI(4), Golubyatnikov GY(4), Ilyinskaya OY(3), Orlova AG(4), Subochev PV(4), Safonov DV(2), ShakhovaNM(4), Maslennikova AV(2)(5).Author information: (1)Volga Region Medical Center, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia.(2)Nizhny Novgorod State Medical Academy, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia.(3)Regional Oncological Hospital, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia.(4)Institute of Applied Physics RAS, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia.(5)Lobachevsky University, Nizhny Novgorod, Russia.The ability for noninvasive visualization of functional changes of a tumor'soxygenation and circulatory system offers new advantages for prognosis andmonitoring of the treatment efficacy. The results of breast cancer oxygen statestudy under chemotherapy action obtained by diffuse optical spectroscopy (DOS) incombination with Doppler ultrasonic imaging are presented. Complex use of opticaland ultrasound methods gives complementary information about the size of thetumor node, peculiarities of its vascular bed, rate of its blood flow as well as oxygenation, and provide a picture of the tumor response to treatment. Comparisonwith tumor pathologic response allowed to identify differences in the changes of these parameters depending on the degree of pathological tumor response tochemotherapy. It was demonstrated that fourth and fifth degrees of therapeuticpathomorphism may be predicted by the increase of oxygen saturation level afterthe first cycle of chemotherapy. If the reduction or absence of the oxygensaturation dynamics is observed, first or second degree of pathological tumorresponse can be expected. Additional ultrasound investigation of the tumors maybe useful for observation of the dynamics of tumor blood flow thereby forunderstanding the reasons of induced chemotherapy oxygenation changes. Theproposed approach based on DOS and ultrasonography may be applied for monitoring of breast tumors under therapy and prediction of their sensitivity.(2018) COPYRIGHT Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE).DOI: 10.1117/1.JBO.23.9.091410 PMID: 29766686 