97. Heart. 2018 May 15. pii: heartjnl-2017-312123. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2017-312123.[Epub ahead of print]How to prevent and manage radiation-induced coronary artery disease.Cuomo JR(1), Javaheri SP(1), Sharma GK(1), Kapoor D(1), Berman AE(1), WeintraubNL(2).Author information: (1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, USA.(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Vascular Biology Center,Medical College of Georgia at Augusta University, Augusta, Georgia, USA.Radiation-induced coronary heart disease (RICHD) is the second most common cause of morbidity and mortality in patients treated with radiotherapy for breastcancer, Hodgkin's lymphoma and other prevalent mediastinal malignancies. The riskof RICHD increases with radiation dose. Exposed patients may present decadesafter treatment with manifestations ranging from asymptomatic myocardialperfusion defects to ostial, triple-vessel disease and sudden cardiac death.RICHD is insidious, with a long latency and a tendency to remain silent late intothe disease course. Vessel involvement is often diffuse and is preferentiallyproximal. The pathophysiology is similar to that of accelerated atherosclerosis, characterised by the formation of inflammatory plaque with high collagen andfibrin content. The presence of conventional risk factors potentiates RICHD, and aggressive risk factor management should ideally be initiated prior to radiation therapy. Stress echocardiography is more sensitive and specific than myocardialperfusion imaging in the detection of RICHD, and CT coronary angiography showspromise in risk stratification. Coronary artery bypass grafting is associatedwith higher risks of graft failure, perioperative complications and all-causemortality in patients with RICHD. In most cases, the use of drug-eluting stentsis preferable to surgical intervention, bare metal stenting orballoon-angioplasty alone.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2017-312123 PMID: 29764968 