80. ESMO Open. 2018 May 3;3(Suppl 1):e000357. doi: 10.1136/esmoopen-2018-000357.eCollection 2018.How shall we treat early triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC): from the currentstandard to upcoming immuno-molecular strategies.Park JH(1)(2), Ahn JH(1), Kim SB(1).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College ofMedicine, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea.(2)Department of Hemato-Oncology, Konkuk Medical Center, University of KonkukCollege of Medicine, Gwangjin-gu, Seoul, Korea.Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a long-lasting orphan disease in terms oflittle therapeutic progress during the past several decades and still thestandard of care remains chemotherapy. Experimental discovery of molecularsignatures including the 'BRCAness' highlighted the innate heterogeneity of TNBC,generating the diversity of TNBC phenotypes. As it contributes to enhancinggenomic instability, it has widened the therapeutic spectrum of TNBC. Inparticular, unusual sensitivity to DNA damaging agents was denoted in patientswith BRCA deficiency, suggesting therapeutic benefit from platinum andpoly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors. However, regardless of enrichedchemosensitivity and immunogenicity, majority of patients with TNBC still suffer from dismal clinical outcomes including early relapse and metastatic spread.Therefore, efforts into more precise and personalised treatment are critical atthis point. Accordingly, the advance of multiomics has revealed novel actionable targets including PI3K-Akt-mTOR and epidermal growth factor receptor signallingpathways, which might actively participate in modulating the chemosensitivity andimmune system. Also, TNBC has long been considered a potential protagonist ofimmunotherapy in breast cancer, supported by abundant tumour-infiltratinglymphocytes and heterogeneous tumour microenvironment. Despite that, earlierstudies showed somewhat unsatisfactory results of monotherapy withimmune-checkpoint inhibitors, consistently durable responses in responders werenoteworthy. Based on these results, further combinatorial trials either withother chemotherapy or targeted agents are underway. Incorporatingimmune-molecular targets into combination as well as refining the standardchemotherapy might be the key to unlock the future of TNBC. In this review, weshare the current and upcoming treatment options of TNBC in the framework ofscientific and clinical data, especially focusing on early stage of TNBC.DOI: 10.1136/esmoopen-2018-000357 PMCID: PMC5950702PMID: 29765774 