Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.92. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2018 Jun;162(2):83-89. doi: 10.5507/bp.2018.014. Epub 2018 May 15.Risks and protective factors for triple negative breast cancer with a focus onmicronutrients and infections.Horakova D(1), Bouchalova K(2)(3), Cwiertka K(4), Stepanek L(1), Vlckova J(1),Kollarova H(1).Author information: (1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky University Olomouc, Czech Republic.(2)Institute of Molecular and Translational Medicine, Faculty of Medicine andDentistry, Palacky University Olomouc, Czech Republic.(3)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, PalackyUniversity Olomouc and University Hospital Olomouc, Czech Republic.(4)Department of Oncology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky University Olomouc and University Hospital Olomouc, Czech Republic.Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive form of breast cancer (BC) with a poor prognosis. Second, patients cannot benefit from targeted therapy,except for those with BRCA1/2 mutations, for whom poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase(PARP) inhibition therapy using olaparib has recently been approved. As globalpriorities continue to be epidemiological analysis of BC risk factors and earlydiagnosis, this review focuses on the risks and protective factors associatedwith TNBC. A PubMed keyword search for new knowledge on the risks and protective factors for TNBC was carried out. We also found statistical information fromcurrent online databases concerning the estimated incidence, prevalence andmortality worldwide of this cancer. Traditional risk factors for BC and TNBC are those related to reproduction such as the age of menarche, age of first birth,parity, breastfeeding and age at menopause. Attention needs to be paid tofamilial BC, weight control, alcohol consumption and regular physical activity.Epidemiological studies on TNBC provide evidence for protective factors such asregular consumption of soya, seafood, green tea, folic acid and vitamin D.Potential risk factors may include night work and viral infectious agents likehuman papillomavirus (HPV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Droplet digitalmethylation-specific PCR (ddMSP) is a possible new screening method for detectionof BC including TNBC. Further research is necessary to validate these newfactors.DOI: 10.5507/bp.2018.014 PMID: 29765171 