93. Oncogene. 2018 May 16. doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0281-5. [Epub ahead of print]The cancer-associated microprotein CASIMO1 controls cell proliferation andinteracts with squalene epoxidase modulating lipid droplet formation.Polycarpou-Schwarz M(1)(2), Groß M(1)(2), Mestdagh P(3), Schott J(4), GrundSE(1), Hildenbrand C(1), Rom J(5), Aulmann S(2), Sinn HP(2), Vandesompele J(3),Diederichs S(6)(7)(8)(9)(10).Author information: (1)Division of RNA Biology & Cancer, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),Heidelberg, Germany.(2)Institute of Pathology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.(3)Center for Medical Genetics & Cancer Research Institute Ghent (CRIG), GhentUniversity Belgium, Ghent, Belgium.(4)Division of Biochemistry I, Center for Biomedicine and Medical TechnologyMannheim (CBTM), Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, and Center for Molecular Biology of Heidelberg University (ZMBH), DKFZ-ZMBH Alliance, Mannheim, Germany.(5)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University Hospital Heidelberg,Heidelberg, Germany.(6)Division of RNA Biology & Cancer, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),Heidelberg, Germany. s.diederichs@dkfz.de.(7)Institute of Pathology, University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.s.diederichs@dkfz.de.(8)Division of Cancer Research, Department of Thoracic Surgery, MedicalCenter-University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. s.diederichs@dkfz.de.(9)Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.s.diederichs@dkfz.de.(10)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.s.diederichs@dkfz.de.Breast cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related death in women. Small openreading frame (sORF)-encoded proteins or microproteins constitute a new class of molecules often transcribed from presumed long non-coding RNA transcripts(lncRNAs). The translation of some of these sORFs has been confirmed, but theircellular function and importance remains largely unknown. Here, we report theidentification and characterization of a novel microprotein of 10 kDa, which wenamed Cancer-Associated Small Integral Membrane Open reading frame 1 (CASIMO1).CASIMO1 RNA is overexpressed predominantly in hormone receptor-positive breasttumors. Its knockdown leads to decreased proliferation in multiple breast cancer cell lines. Its loss disturbs the organization of the actin cytoskeleton, leadsto inhibition of cell motility, and causes a G0/G1 cell cycle arrest. Theproliferation phenotype upon overexpression is observed only with CASIMO1 proteinexpression, but not with a non-translatable mutant attributing the effects to thesORF-derived protein rather than a lncRNA function. CASIMO1 microproteininteracts with squalene epoxidase (SQLE), a key enzyme in cholesterol synthesisand a known oncogene in breast cancer. Overexpression of CASIMO1 leads to SQLEprotein accumulation without affecting its RNA levels and increased lipid dropletclustering, while knockdown of CASIMO1 decreased SQLE protein abundance and ERKphosphorylation downstream of SQLE. Importantly, SQLE knockdown mimicked theCASIMO1 knockdown phenotype and in turn SQLE overexpression fully rescued theeffect of CASIMO1 knockdown. These findings establish CASIMO1 as the firstfunctional microprotein that plays a role in carcinogenesis and is implicated in the cell lipid homeostasis.DOI: 10.1038/s41388-018-0281-5 PMID: 29765154 