77. Support Care Cancer. 2018 May 16. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4253-7. [Epub ahead of print]Supportive care priorities of low-income Latina breast cancer survivors.Sleight AG(1), Lyons KD(2)(3), Vigen C(4), Macdonald H(5), Clark F(4).Author information: (1)Mrs. T.H. Chan Division of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy,University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. sleight@usc.edu.(2)Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.(3)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, USA.(4)Mrs. T.H. Chan Division of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy,University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(5)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA,USA.PURPOSE: This study investigated the supportive care needs of a sample oflow-income Latina breast cancer survivors.METHODS: Ninety-nine Spanish-speaking breast cancer survivors who self-identifiedas Latina and reported an income below the US Census Bureau low-income threshold were recruited from the oncology clinic of a major public safety net hospital.Eligible participants completed the supportive care needs survey (SCNS-SF34) and a demographic questionnaire.RESULTS: Ninety-three percent of respondents had unmet needs. The majority offrequently reported unmet needs involved (1) access to and delivery ofhealth-related information and (2) physical function. These findings appear tocontrast with those of other studies of supportive care needs in heterogeneouscancer survivors, most of which describe psychological concerns as most urgent.CONCLUSIONS: Participants espoused information-related needs with a higherfrequency than many other samples of cancer survivors. This study population may also require a particularly high level of assistance with overcomingparticipation restrictions. Further research is needed to understand thesediscrepancies and to address unmet needs across all domains.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4253-7 PMID: 29766260 