Conflict of interest statement: E.P.W. has received research grants fromGenentech and Roche. N.U.L. has received research grants from Genentech, ArrayBiopharma, GlaxoSmithKline, Kadmon and Novartis. The funding sources for thestudy were not involved in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of thedata. Incyte was provided a draft of the manuscript prior to publication;however, they were not involved in the writing of the report or in the decisionto submit the paper for publication. N.U.L. and E.P.W. had full access to all thedata in the study and had final responsibility for the decision to submit forpublication.155. Biomed Opt Express. 2018 Apr 30;9(5):2457-2475. doi: 10.1364/BOE.9.002457.eCollection 2018 May 1.Multiscale nonlinear microscopy and widefield white light imaging enables rapidhistological imaging of surgical specimen margins.Giacomelli MG(1), Yoshitake T(1), Cahill LC(1), Vardeh H(2), Quintana LM(2),Faulkner-Jones BE(2), Brooker J(3), Connolly JL(2), Fujimoto JG(1).Author information: (1)Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Department of Electrical Engineeringand Computer Science and Research Laboratory of Electronics, 32 Vassar Street,Cambridge, MA 02139,USA.(2)Harvard Medical School, Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess MedicalCenter, 330 Brookline Avenue, Boston, MA 02215, USA.(3)Thorlabs Advanced Imaging Group, 108 Powers Court, Sterling, VA 20166, USA.The ability to histologically assess surgical specimens in real-time is along-standing challenge in cancer surgery, including applications such as breast conserving therapy (BCT). Up to 40% of women treated with BCT for breast cancerrequire a repeat surgery due to postoperative histological findings of close orpositive surgical margins using conventional formalin fixed paraffin embeddedhistology. Imaging technologies such as nonlinear microscopy (NLM), combined withexogenous fluorophores can rapidly provide virtual H&E imaging of surgicalspecimens without requiring microtome sectioning, facilitating intraoperativeassessment of margin status. However, the large volume of typical surgicalexcisions combined with the need for rapid assessment, make comprehensivecellular resolution margin assessment during surgery challenging. To address thislimitation, we developed a multiscale, real-time microscope with variablemagnification NLM and real-time, co-registered position display using a widefieldwhite light imaging system. Margin assessment can be performed rapidly underoperator guidance to image specific regions of interest located using widefieldimaging. Using simulated surgical margins dissected from human breast excisions, we demonstrate that multi-centimeter margins can be comprehensively imaged atcellular resolution, enabling intraoperative margin assessment. These methods areconsistent with pathology assessment performed using frozen section analysis(FSA), however NLM enables faster and more comprehensive assessment of surgicalspecimens because imaging can be performed without freezing and cryo-sectioning. Therefore, NLM methods have the potential to be applied to a wide range ofintra-operative applications.DOI: 10.1364/BOE.9.002457 PMCID: PMC5946802PMID: 29761001 