115. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2018;47(1):151-160. doi: 10.1159/000489759. Epub 2018 May10.FGFR4 Links Glucose Metabolism and Chemotherapy Resistance in Breast Cancer.Xu M(1)(2), Chen S(3), Yang W(1)(2), Cheng X(1)(2), Ye Y(1)(2), Mao J(1)(2), WuX(1)(2), Huang L(4), Ji J(1)(2).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Imaging Diagnosis and Minimally Invasive InterventionResearch, Lishui, China.(2)Departments of Radiology, Lishui, China.(3)Breast Surgery, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University,Affiliated Lishui Hospital of Zhejiang University, The Central Hospital ofZhejiang, Lishui, China.(4)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Shanghai Key Laboratory of D&Afor Metal-Functional Materials, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.BACKGROUND/AIMS: Poor response to chemotherapy leads to the relapse andmetastatic progression of tumors. Reprogrammed glucose metabolism is one of theimportant hallmarks of cancer that facilitates cancer cell survival,proliferation and chemoresistance. However, the precise fate of glucosemetabolism and its role in therapy responsiveness in cancers remains largelyunexplored.METHODS: The glycolytic phenotype of doxorubicin (ADR)-resistant breast cancercells and their parental cells was assessed by measuring glucose uptake, lactate release, and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR). Protein expression wasdetected by Western blotting analysis and mRNA expression was detected usingq-PCR. Cell survival ratio was determined by the cell counting kit 8 assay. Therole of fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 (FGFR4) in glycolysis,chemoresistance, and the underlying mechanisms were studied by using geneexpression microarray and short hairpin RNA-mediated gene knockdown.RESULTS: We found that glycolytic flux are increased in two doxorubicin(ADR)-resistant breast cancer cell lines compared with their parental wild typecells, as demonstrated by increased glucose uptake, lactate release, andextracellular acidification rate (ECAR). By gene expression microarray, weidentified FGFR4 as a critical modulator of ADR resistance and enhanced glucosemetabolism. Genetic silencing of FGFR4 increased the chemosensitivity andsuppressed the enhanced glycolytic flux in ADR-resistant cells. Mechanistically, activation of FGFR4 signaling in ADR-resistant cells led to the phosphorylationof FGF receptor substrate 2 (FRS2) and further activated the downstream MAPK/ERK signaling. Pharmacological inhibition of FGFR4-FRS2-ERK signaling pathwaysignificantly blocked the chemoresistant and glycolytic phenotypes ofADR-resistant cells.CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that high levels of FGFR4 can increase glucosemetabolism and lead to chemoresistance in breast cancer and reveal themechanistic basis for targeting FGFR4 as a therapeutic opportunity forchemoresistant tumors.© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.DOI: 10.1159/000489759 PMID: 29763898 