43. PLoS One. 2018 May 16;13(5):e0195932. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195932.eCollection 2018.Clinically relevant inflammatory breast cancer patient-derived xenograft-derived ex vivo model for evaluation of tumor-specific therapies.Eckhardt BL(1)(2), Gagliardi M(1), Iles L(3), Evans K(4), Ivan C(3), Liu X(3),Liu CG(3), Souza G(5)(6), Rao A(7), Meric-Bernstam F(4), Ueno NT(1)(2),Bartholomeusz GA(2)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas, MD, AndersonCancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States of America.(2)Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program and Clinic, TheUniversity of Texas, MD, Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States ofAmerica.(3)Department of Experimental Therapeutics, The University of Texas, MD, AndersonCancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States of America.(4)Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics, The University of Texas,MD, Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States of America.(5)Nano3D Biosciences, Houston, Texas, United States of America.(6)University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, Texas, United States ofAmerica.(7)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University ofTexas, MD, Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States of America.Inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) is a rare and aggressive presentation ofinvasive breast cancer with a 62% to 68% 5-year survival rate. It is the mostlethal form of breast cancer, and early recognition and treatment is importantfor patient survival. Like non-inflammatory breast cancer, IBC comprises multiplesubtypes, with the triple-negative subtype being overrepresented. Although thecurrent multimodality treatment regime of anthracycline- and taxane-basedneoadjuvant therapy, surgery, and radiotherapy has improved the outcome ofpatients with triple-negative IBC, overall survival continues to be worse than inpatients with non-inflammatory locally advanced breast cancer. Translation of newtherapies into the clinics to successfully treat IBC has been poor, in partbecause of the lack of in vitro preclinical models that can accurately predictthe response of the original tumor to therapy. We report the generation of apreclinical IBC patient-derived xenograft (PDX)-derived ex vivo (PDXEx) model andshow that it closely replicates the tissue architecture of the original PDX tumorharvested from mice. The gene expression profile of our IBC PDXEx model had ahigh degree of correlation to that of the original tumor. This suggests that the process of generating the PDXEx model did not significantly alter the molecularsignature of the original tumor. We demonstrate a high degree of similarity indrug response profile between a PDX mouse model and our PDXEx model generatedfrom the same original PDX tumor tissue and treated with the same panel of drugs,indicating that our PDXEx model had high predictive value in identifyingeffective tumor-specific therapies. Finally, we used our PDXEx model as aplatform for a robotic-based high-throughput drug screen of a 386-druganti-cancer compound library. The top candidates identified from this drug screenall demonstrated greater therapeutic efficacy than the standard-of-care drugsused in the clinic to treat triple-negative IBC, doxorubicin and paclitaxel. Our PDXEx model is simple, and we are confident that it can be incorporated into aPDX mouse system for use as a first-pass screening platform. This will permit theidentification of effective tumor-specific therapies with high predictive valuein a resource-, time-, and cost-efficient manner.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0195932 PMCID: PMC5955489PMID: 29768500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]