136. Food Funct. 2018 May 23;9(5):2705-2715. doi: 10.1039/c8fo00547h.Anticancer potential against cervix cancer (HeLa) cell line of probioticLactobacillus casei and Lactobacillus paracasei strains isolated from humanbreast milk.Riaz Rajoka MS (1), Zhao H , Lu Y , Lian Z , Li N , Hussain N , Shao D , Jin M , Li Q , Shi J .Author information: (1)Key Laboratory for Space Bioscience and Space Biotechnology, School of LifeSciences, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710072, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China. sjlshi2004@nwpu.edu.cn.Lactic acid bacteria have been categorized as probiotics and play a crucial role in human health by stimulating the supply of nutrients, shaping the immunesystem, and preventing the colonization of pathogenic microbes. This studyinvestigated the mechanisms for the action of three potential probioticLactobacillus strains: Lactobacillus casei SR1, Lactobacillus casei SR2, andLactobacillus paracasei SR4 isolated from human breast milk. These Lactobacillus strains were identified via 16S DNA sequencing and characterized via biochemical assays including acid resistance, bile resistance, antioxidant activity, andantibiotic susceptibility. The bioactivity of the cell-free culture supernatant(CFCS) secreted by these strains on the cervix cancer (HeLa) cell line was alsoevaluated via cytotoxicity assay and apoptosis analysis. The mechanism ofanticancer activity was also investigated via RT-qPCR and western blotting. Theresults demonstrated that these newly isolated Lactobacillus strains from humanmilk displayed noticeable probiotic characteristics such as excellent antibiotic susceptibility, outstanding antioxidant activity, and promising resistance to lowpH and high concentration of bile salts. The results of the conducted bioactivityassays verified that the CFCSs had acceptable anticancer effects on cervix cancer(HeLa) cells by upregulating the expression of apoptotic genes BAX, BAD,caspase3, caspase8, and caspase9 and by downregulating the expression of theBCl-2 gene. Overall, these results indicate that the Lactobacillus strainsisolated from human breast milk could be considered as a topical medication with a potential therapeutic index due to their efficacy against cervix cancer cells.DOI: 10.1039/c8fo00547h PMID: 29762617 