Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare noconflicts of interest.86. Front Pharmacol. 2018 May 1;9:403. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00403. eCollection2018.Utility of a Novel Three-Dimensional and Dynamic (3DD) Cell Culture System forPK/PD Studies: Evaluation of a Triple Combination Therapy at Overcoming Anti-HER2Treatment Resistance in Breast Cancer.Ande A(1), Vaidya TR(1), Tran BN(1), Vicchiarelli M(2), Brown AN(2), Ait-OudhiaS(1).Author information: (1)Center for Pharmacometrics and Systems Pharmacology, Department ofPharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, University of Florida, Orlando, FL, UnitedStates.(2)Institute for Therapeutic Innovation, Department of Medicine, College ofMedicine, University of Florida, Orlando, FL, United States.Background: Emergence of Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) therapy resistance in HER2-positive (HER2+) breast cancer (BC) poses a major clinicalchallenge. Mechanisms of resistance include the over-activation of the PI3K/mTOR and Src pathways. This work aims to investigate a novel combination therapy that employs paclitaxel (PAC), a mitotic inhibitor, with everolimus (EVE), an mTORinhibitor, and dasatinib (DAS), an Src kinase inhibitor, as a modality toovercome resistance. Methods: Static (two dimensional, 2D) and three-dimensional dynamic (3DD) cell culture studies were conducted using JIMT-1 cells, a HER2+ BC cell line refractory to HER2 therapies. Cell viability and caspase-3 expressionwere examined after JIMT-1 cell exposure to agents as monotherapy or incombination using a 2D setting. A pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD)combination study with PAC+DAS+EVE was conducted over 3 weeks in a 3DD setting.PAC was administered into the system via a 3 h infusion followed by the addition of a continuous infusion of EVE+DAS 24 h post-PAC dosing. Cell counts andcaspase-3 expression were quantified every 2 days. A semi-mechanistic PK/PD modelwas developed using the 2D data and scaled up to capture the 3DD data. The final model integrated active caspase-3 as a biomarker to bridge between drug exposuresand cancer cell dynamics. Model fittings were performed using Monolix software.Results: The triple combination significantly induced caspase-3 activity in the2D cell culture setting. In the 3DD cell culture setting, sequential dosing ofPAC then EVE+DAS showed a 5-fold increase in caspase-3 activity and 8.5-folddecrease in the total cell number compared to the control. The semi-mechanisticPK/PD models fit the data well, capturing the time-course profiles of drugconcentrations, caspase-3 expression, and cell counts in the 2D and 3DD settings.Conclusion: A novel, sequential triple combination therapeutic regimen wassuccessfully evaluated in both 2D and 3DD in vitro cell culture systems. Theefficacy of this combination at inhibiting the cellular proliferation andre-growth of HER2/mTOR resistant cell line, JIMT-1, is demonstrated. Abiomarker-linked PK/PD model successfully captured all time-course data. Thelatter can be used as a modeling platform for a direct translation from 3DD invitro settings to the clinic.DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00403 PMCID: PMC5938355PMID: 29765318 