180. J Psychosom Res. 2018 Jun;109:51-56. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2018.03.171. Epub 2018 Mar 29.Is expressive suppression harmful for Chinese American breast cancer survivors?Lu Q(1), Tsai W(2), Chu Q(3), Xie J(3).Author information: (1)Department of Psychology, University of Houston, Houston, USA; Department ofHealth Disparities Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,USA. Electronic address: qlu.ucla@gmail.com.(2)Department of Psychology, California State University, San Marcos, USA.(3)Department of Psychology, University of Houston, Houston, USA.Emotion regulation strategies are important for cancer survivors' adjustment.Expressive suppression, defined as the active effort of inhibiting the expressivecomponent of an emotional response, has been found to be a maladaptive emotionregulation strategy. These studies, however, have been limited to cross-sectionaldesigns and primarily European American samples. Chinese culture encouragesemotion suppression to preserve interpersonal harmony and therefore it may beimportant to test these emotion regulation processes with this population. Thisstudy aimed to examine the longitudinal effects of expressive suppression,ambivalence over emotional expression (i.e., inner conflict over emotionalexpression), and cognitive reappraisal on quality of life among Chinese American breast cancer survivors. 103 participants completed a questionnaire assessingexpressive suppression, ambivalence over emotional expression, cognitivereappraisal, and quality of life at baseline and a questionnaire assessingquality of life eight weeks later. Consistent with our hypotheses, baselineambivalence over emotional expression was associated with lower follow-up qualityof life above and beyond the effect of expressive suppression. Furthermore,cognitive reappraisal moderated the relations between expressive suppression and follow-up quality of life, such that expressive suppression may be lessdetrimental for Chinese American breast cancer survivors who are able to regulatetheir emotions using cognitive reappraisal. Implications for informinginterventions for Chinese American breast cancer survivors are discussed.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2018.03.171 PMID: 29773152 