Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No conflict of interest wasdeclared by the author.151. Eur J Breast Health. 2018 Apr 1;14(2):64-71. doi: 10.5152/ejbh.2018.3978.eCollection 2018 Apr.Breast Cancer Prevention: Current Approaches and Future Directions.Sauter ER(1).Author information: (1)University of Connecticut School of Medicine, Farmington, Connecticut, USA.The topic of breast cancer prevention is very broad. All aspects of the topic,therefore, cannot be adequately covered in a single review. The objective of thisreview is to discuss strategies in current use to prevent breast cancer, as well as potential approaches that could be used in the future. This review does notdiscuss early detection strategies for breast cancer, including breast cancerscreening. The breast is the most common site among women worldwide ofnoncutaneous cancer. Many clinical and genetic factors have been found toincrease a woman's risk of developing the disease. Current strategies to decreasea woman's risk of developing breast cancer include primary prevention, such asavoiding tobacco, exogenous hormone use and excess exposure to ionizingradiation, maintaining a normal weight, exercise, breastfeeding, eating a healthydiet and minimizing alcohol intake. Chemoprevention medications are available forthose at high risk, though they are underutilized in eligible women. Mastectomyand/or bilateral oophorectomy are reasonable strategies for women who havedeleterious mutations in genes that dramatically increase the risk of developing cancer in either breast. There are a variety of strategies in development for theprevention of breast cancer. Personalized approaches to prevent breast cancerthat are being developed focus on advances in precision medicine, knowledge ofthe immune system and the tumor microenvironment and their role in cancerdevelopment. Advances in our understanding of how breast cancer develops areallowing investigators to specifically target populations who are most likely to benefit. Additionally, prevention clinical trials are starting to evaluatemulti-agent cancer prevention approaches, with the hope of improved efficacy oversingle agents. Finally, there is a push to increase the use of chemopreventiveagents with proven efficacy, such as tamoxifen and raloxifene, in the prevention of breast cancer.DOI: 10.5152/ejbh.2018.3978 PMCID: PMC5939980PMID: 29774312 