138. Support Care Cancer. 2018 May 17. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4247-5. [Epub ahead of print]Neuropsychological profiles of breast cancer and brain tumor cohorts in NortheastOntario, Canada.Mariani M(1)(2), Collins MWG(3).Author information: (1)Supportive Care Oncology Research Unit, Supportive Care Unit, Northeast CancerCentre, Health Sciences North, 41 Ramsey Lake Road, Sudbury, ON, P3E 5J1, Canada.dr.mariani@bell.net.(2)Mariani and Associates, 208 Caswell Dr., Sudbury, ON, P3E 2N8, Canada.dr.mariani@bell.net.(3)Supportive Care Oncology Research Unit, Supportive Care Unit, Northeast CancerCentre, Health Sciences North, 41 Ramsey Lake Road, Sudbury, ON, P3E 5J1, Canada.PURPOSE: As developments in cancer treatment have improved outcomes, research hasincreasingly focused on the role of cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI) inquality of life for cancer survivors. Impairment profiles have been heterogeneousacross studies, necessitating the study of these effects across differentcohorts. The purpose of this preliminary study is to compare the memory profiles of Northeast Ontario breast and CNS cancer patients, as there is no literaturewhich exists for profiling CRCI within this largely rural region.METHODS: Sixty-three outpatients with breast cancer (n = 32) or CNS tumors(n = 30) at the Northeast Cancer Centre in Sudbury, Canada, were administered aneuropsychological test battery as part of their clinical examination. Domainsmeasured within this study included attention and concentration, processingspeed, motor function, language skills, verbal and visual memory, and executivefunctioning.RESULTS: Participants with brain tumors scored poorer on most neuropsychological measures than participants with breast cancer. Initial verbal memory forindividuals with breast cancer was lower than delayed recall and recognitiontrials. Trial 1 performance for this group was also negatively correlated withself-reported anxiety scores.CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with the literature, participants with breast cancerobtained higher scores on most test measures than participants with CNC tumors.Breast cancer participants had lower verbal memory scores on initial trialscompared to delayed recall, potentially due to relationships with anxiety andattention. Further research into this cohort will strive to gain greaterunderstanding of the patterns of deficits experienced and how these may informindividuals with cancer in other regions.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4247-5 PMID: 29774475 