137. J Pathol. 2018 Aug;245(4):456-467. doi: 10.1002/path.5099. Epub 2018 Jun 20.αE-catenin is a candidate tumor suppressor for the development ofE-cadherin-expressing lobular-type breast cancer.de Groot JS(1), Ratze MA(1), van Amersfoort M(1), Eisemann T(1), Vlug EJ(1),Niklaas MT(1), Chin SF(2), Caldas C(2), van Diest PJ(1), Jonkers J(3), de RooijJ(4), Derksen PW(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, TheNetherlands.(2)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Li Ka ShingCentre, Cambridge Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre and NIHR CambridgeBiomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, UK.(3)Department of Molecular Pathology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam,The Netherlands.(4)Department of Molecular Cancer Research, University Medical Center Utrecht,Utrecht, The Netherlands.Although mutational inactivation of E-cadherin (CDH1) is the main driver ofinvasive lobular breast cancer (ILC), approximately 10-15% of all ILCs retainmembrane-localized E-cadherin despite the presence of an apparent non-cohesiveand invasive lobular growth pattern. Given that ILC is dependent on constitutive actomyosin contraction for tumor development and progression, we used acombination of cell systems and in vivo experiments to investigate theconsequences of α-catenin (CTNNA1) loss in the regulation of anchorageindependence of non-invasive breast carcinoma. We found that inactivating somaticCTNNA1 mutations in human breast cancer correlated with lobular and mixedducto-lobular phenotypes. Further, inducible loss of α-catenin in mouse and humanE-cadherin-expressing breast cancer cells led to atypical localization ofE-cadherin, a rounded cell morphology, and anoikis resistance. Pharmacologicalinhibition experiments subsequently revealed that, similar to E-cadherin-mutantILC, anoikis resistance induced by α-catenin loss was dependent onRho/Rock-dependent actomyosin contractility. Finally, using atransplantation-based conditional mouse model, we demonstrate that inducibleinactivation of α-catenin instigates acquisition of lobular features and invasivebehavior. We therefore suggest that α-catenin represents a bona fide tumorsuppressor for the development of lobular-type breast cancer and as such providesan alternative event to E-cadherin inactivation, adherens junction (AJ)dysfunction, and subsequent constitutive actomyosin contraction. © 2018 TheAuthors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf ofPathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.© 2018 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltdon behalf of Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.DOI: 10.1002/path.5099 PMCID: PMC6055824PMID: 29774524 