185. Geospat Health. 2018 May 7;13(1):616. doi: 10.4081/gh.2018.616.Detection of spatial aggregation of cases of cancer from data on patients andhealth centres contained in the Minimum Basic Data Set.Fernández-Navarro P(1), Sanz-Anquela JM, Sánchez Pinilla A, Arenas Mayorga R,Salido-Campos C, López-Abente G.Author information: (1)Cancer and Environmental Epidemiology Unit, National Center for Epidemiology, Carlos III Institute of Health, Madrid; Consortium for Biomedical Research inEpidemiology and Public Health (CIBER en Epidemiología y Salud Pública -CIBERESP). pfernandezn@isciii.es.The feasibility of the Minimum Basic Data Set (MBDS) as a tool in cancer researchwas explored monitoring its incidence through the detection of spatial clusters. Case-control studies based on MBDS and marked point process were carried out withthe focus on the residence of patients from the Prince of Asturias UniversityHospital in Alcalá de Henares (Madrid, Spain). Patients older than 39 years with diagnoses of stomach, colorectal, lung, breast, prostate, bladder and kidneycancer, melanoma and haematological tumours were selected. Geocoding of theresidence address of the cases was done by locating them in the continuouspopulation roll provided by the Madrid Statistical Institute and extracting thecoordinates. The geocoded control group was a random sample of 10 controls percase matched by frequency of age and sex. To assess case clusters, differences inRipley K functions between cases and controls were calculated. The spatiallocation of clusters was explored by investigating spatial intensity and itsratio between cases and controls. Results suggest the existence of an aggregationof cancers with a common risk factor such as tobacco smoking (lung, bladder andkidney cancers). These clusters were located in an urban area with highsocioeconomic deprivation. The feasibility of designing and carrying outcase-control studies from the MBDS is shown and we conclude that MBDS can be auseful epidemiological tool for cancer surveillance and identification of riskfactors through case-control spatial point process studies.DOI: 10.4081/gh.2018.616 PMID: 29772880 