4. Ann Behav Med. 2018 May 16. doi: 10.1093/abm/kay033. [Epub ahead of print]Checking Behavior, Fear of Recurrence, and Daily Triggers in Breast CancerSurvivors.Soriano EC(1), Valera R(2), Pasipanodya EC(3), Otto AK(1), Siegel SD(4),Laurenceau JP(1).Author information: (1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, University of Delaware,Newark, DE, USA.(2)Department of Psychology, Bloomfield College, Bloomfield, NJ, USA.(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA.(4)Helen F. Graham Cancer Center & Research Institute, Newark, DE, USA.Background: Fear of cancer recurrence (FCR) is a top ongoing concern of breastcancer (BC) survivors and thus the focus of recent intervention development. The Self-Regulation Model of FCR (Lee-Jones C, Humphris G, Dixon R, Hatcher MB. Fear of cancer recurrence-a literature review and proposed cognitive formulation toexplain exacerbation of recurrence fears. Psychooncology. 1997;6:95-105.) states that everyday cancer-related events trigger FCR, which, in turn, leads tospecific behavioral responses, including checking the body for signs or symptoms of cancer. Links between triggering events, FCR, and checking behavior have notyet been studied in the context of daily life or at the within-person level.Purpose: The goal of this study was to examine whether FCR has a within-personlink with daily checking behavior and whether FCR mediates the link betweentriggering events and checking behavior.Methods: Seventy-two early-stage BC survivors completed daily diaries over a21-day period approximately 5 months after BC surgery. FCR, checking behavior,and triggering events were assessed each evening.Results: Multilevel modeling results indicated that FCR predicted greater odds ofsame-day, but not next-day, checking behavior. We found that daily FCRsignificantly mediated the same-day effect of triggering events on checkingbehavior. These average within-person effects varied substantially betweenpatients and were not explained by momentary negative affect.Conclusions: Findings support the within-person relationship between triggeringevents, FCR, and checking behavior posited by guiding theory, and can inform FCR intervention development.DOI: 10.1093/abm/kay033 PMID: 29771272 