18. Br J Health Psychol. 2018 May 16. doi: 10.1111/bjhp.12313. [Epub ahead of print]Pilot randomized trial of a volitional help sheet-based tool to increase leisure time physical activity in breast cancer survivors.Chapman J(1), Fletcher C(1), Flight I(1), Wilson C(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)Flinders Centre for Innovation in Cancer, College of Medicine and PublicHealth, Flinders University, Bedford Park, South Australia, Australia.(2)Olivia Newton John Cancer Wellness and Research Centre, Heidelberg, Victoria, Australia.(3)School of Psychology and Public Health, La Trobe University, Bundoora,Victoria, Australia.OBJECTIVES: To develop and test a volitional help sheet-based tool to improvephysical activity in breast cancer survivors compared to a standardself-generated implementation intention intervention.DESIGN: Pilot randomized trial conducted online over 3 months.METHODS: Participants were randomized to an online volitional help sheet (n = 50)or implementation intention (n = 51) intervention. Measures were taken atbaseline, 1 and 3 months. The main outcome measure was moderate-strenuous leisuretime physical activity. Secondary outcomes were health-related quality of lifeand mood.RESULTS: Participants exposed to the volitional help sheet and implementationintention interventions showed similar effects after 1 month, with both groupsreporting a significant increase in moderate-strenuous physical activity. After3 months, the initial increase in physical activity was maintained by thevolitional help sheet group, but not the implementation intention group.Improvements were also found for negative affect and emotional quality of life.CONCLUSION: While both interventions show promise in promoting physical activity in breast cancer survivors, the volitional help sheet may be more effective forfacilitating lasting change and emotional well-being. Findings suggest that thevolitional help sheet may have potential to offer a cost-effective contributionto consumer-led tertiary preventive health. Future research should test theseinitial findings in a definitive trial. Statement of contribution What is alreadyknown on this subject? Physical activity is important for optimizing health inbreast cancer survivors. Despite this, physical activity in this cohort remainslow. Theory-based strategies are needed to help breast cancer survivorsindependently manage and maintain regular physical activity over the long term.What does this study add? Online planning interventions can improve physicalactivity in breast cancer survivors. Volitional help sheets, but notimplementation intentions, show sustained effects for 3 months. The intervention shows promise as a potential low-cost addition to long-term survivorship careplans.© 2018 The British Psychological Society.DOI: 10.1111/bjhp.12313 PMID: 29770553 