172. Eur J Endocrinol. 2018 Aug;179(2):R95-R110. doi: 10.1530/EJE-17-0976. Epub 2018May 17.MECHANISMS OF ENDOCRINOLOGY: Cell cycle regulation in adrenocortical carcinoma.Pereira SS(1)(2)(3), Monteiro MP(3), Bourdeau I(4), Lacroix A(4), PignatelliD(5)(2)(6).Author information: (1)Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde (I3S)Universidade do Porto,Porto, Portugal.(2)Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology of the University of Porto(IPATIMUP)Porto, Portugal.(3)Clinical and Experimental EndocrinologyDepartment of Anatomy,Multidisciplinary Unit for Biomedical Research (UMIB), Instituto de CiênciasBiomédicas Abel Salazar, University of Porto (ICBAS/UP), Porto, Portugal.(4)Endocrinology DivisionDepartment of Medicine, Centre de Recherche du CentreHospitalier de l'Université de Montréal (CHUM), Montréal, Canada.(5)Instituto de Investigação e Inovação em Saúde (I3S)Universidade do Porto,Porto, Portugal dpignatelli@yahoo.com.(6)Department of EndocrinologyHospital S. João, Porto, Portugal.Adrenocortical carcinomas (ACCs) are rather rare endocrine tumors that often havea poor prognosis. The reduced survival rate associated with these tumors is dueto their aggressive biological behavior, combined with the scarcity of effective treatment options that are currently available. The recent identification of the genomic alterations present in ACC have provided further molecular mechanisms to develop consistent strategies for the diagnosis, prevention of progression andtreatment of advanced ACCs. Taken together, molecular and genomic advances could be leading the way to develop personalized medicine in ACCs similarly to similar developments in lung or breast cancers. In this review, we focused our attention to systematically compile and summarize the alterations in the cell cycleregulation that were described so far in ACC as they are known to play a crucial role in cell differentiation and growth. We have divided the analysis accordingto the major transition phases of the cell cycle, G1 to S and G2 to M. We haveanalyzed the most extensively studied checkpoints: the p53/Rb1 pathway,CDC2/cyclin B and topoisomerases (TOPs). We reached the conclusion that the most important alterations having a potential application in clinical practice are theones related to p53/Rb1 and TOP 2. We also present a brief description ofon-going clinical trials based on molecular alterations in ACC. The drugs havetargeted the insulin-like growth factor receptor 1, TOP 2, polo-like kinase1,cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors, p53 reactivation and CDC25.© 2018 European Society of Endocrinology.DOI: 10.1530/EJE-17-0976 PMID: 29773584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]