Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declaredthat no competing interest exists.165. Theranostics. 2018 Apr 11;8(10):2782-2798. doi: 10.7150/thno.23050. eCollection2018.Plectin-targeted liposomes enhance the therapeutic efficacy of a PARP inhibitorin the treatment of ovarian cancer.Dasa SSK(1)(2), Diakova G(2)(3), Suzuki R(3), Mills AM(4), Gutknecht MF(1)(2),Klibanov AL(1)(3), Slack-Davis JK(5), Kelly KA(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,VA, USA.(2)Cancer center, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.(3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.(4)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.(5)Department of Microbiology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.Advances in genomics and proteomics drive precision medicine by providingactionable genetic alterations and molecularly targeted therapies, respectively. While genomic analysis and medicinal chemistry have advanced patientstratification with treatments tailored to the genetic profile of a patient'stumor, proteomic targeting has the potential to enhance the therapeutic index of drugs like poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. PARP inhibitors inbreast and ovarian cancer patients with BRCA1/2 mutations have shown promise.About 10% of the patients who received Olaparib (PARP inhibitor) showed adverseside effects including neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and in some cases resultedin myelodysplastic syndrome, indicating that off-target effects were substantial in these patients. Through proteomic analysis, our lab previously identifiedplectin, a cytolinker protein that mislocalized onto the cell surface duringmalignant transformation of healthy ovarian tissue. This cancer specificphenotype allowed us to image pancreatic cancer successfully using plectintargeted peptide (PTP) conjugated to nanoparticles or displayed on capsid proteinof adeno-associated virus (AAV) particles. Objective: The goal of this study was to integrate the available pharmacogenomics and proteomic data to developeffective anti-tumor therapies using a targeted drug delivery approach. Methods: Plectin expression and localization in human ovarian tumor specimens wereanalyzed followed by in vitro confirmation of cell surface plectin localizationin healthy and ovarian cancer cell lines. PTP-conjugated liposomes were prepared and their specificity for plectin+ cells was determined in vitro and in vivo. Aremote loading method was employed to encapsulate a PARP inhibitor (AZ7379) into liposomes. An ideal buffer exchange method and remote loading conditions weredetermined based on the amount of lipid and drug recovered at the end of a remoteloading process. Finally, in vivo tumor growth studies were performed todetermine the efficacy of PTP liposomes in preventing PARP activity in micebearing OVCAR8 (high grade epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC)) tumors. Results: PTP liposomal AZ7379 delivery not only enhanced PARP inhibition but also resulted in decelerated tumor growth in mice bearing subcutaneous and intraperitoneal OVCAR8 tumors. In mice bearing subcutaneous or intraperitoneal tumors, treatment withPTP liposomes resulted in a 3- and 1.7-fold decrease in tumor volume,respectively, compared to systemic drug treatment. Conclusion: Targeted drugdelivery assisted by genomic and proteomic data provides an adaptable modelsystem that can be extended to effectively treat other cancers and diseases.DOI: 10.7150/thno.23050 PMCID: PMC5957009PMID: 29774075 