11. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 May 16. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6506-6. [Epub ahead ofprint]Cytolytic Activity Score to Assess Anticancer Immunity in Colorectal Cancer.Narayanan S(1), Kawaguchi T(1), Yan L(2), Peng X(2), Qi Q(2), TakabeK(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8).Author information: (1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY,USA.(2)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Roswell Park Cancer Institute,Buffalo, NY, USA.(3)Department of Surgical Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY,USA. Kazuaki.Takabe@roswellpark.org.(4)Department of Surgery, University at Buffalo, The State University of New YorkJacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Buffalo, NY, USA.Kazuaki.Takabe@roswellpark.org.(5)Department of Breast Surgery and Oncology, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo,Japan. Kazuaki.Takabe@roswellpark.org.(6)Department of Surgery, Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan.Kazuaki.Takabe@roswellpark.org.(7)Department of Surgery, Niigata University Graduate School of Medical andDental Sciences, Niigata, Japan. Kazuaki.Takabe@roswellpark.org.(8)Department of Breast Surgery, Fukushima Medical University School of Medicine,Fukushima, Japan. Kazuaki.Takabe@roswellpark.org.BACKGROUND: Elevated tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) within the tumormicroenvironment is a known positive prognostic factor in colorectal cancer(CRC). We hypothesized that since cytotoxic T cells release cytolytic proteinssuch as perforin (PRF1) and pro-apoptotic granzymes (GZMA) to attack cancercells, a cytolytic activity score (CYT) would be a useful tool to assessanticancer immunity.METHODS: Genomic expression data were obtained from 456 patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). CYT was defined by GZMA and PRF1 expression, and CIBERSORTwas used to evaluate intratumoral immune cell composition.RESULTS: High CYT was associated with high microsatellite instability (MSI-H), aswell as high levels of activated memory CD4+T cells, gamma-delta T cells, and M1 macrophages. CYT-high CRC patients had improved overall survival (p = 0.019) and disease-free survival (p = 0.016) compared with CYT-low CRC patients, especially in TIL-positive tumors. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that CYT- highassociates with improved survival independently after controlling for age,lymphovascular invasion, colonic location, microsatellite instability, and TILpositivity. The levels of immune checkpoint molecules (ICMs)-programmed death-1(PD-1), programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associatedprotein 4 (CTLA4), lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG3), T cell immunoglobulin andmucin domain 3 (TIM3), and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1)-correlatedsignificantly with CYT (p < 0.0001); with improved survival in CYT-high andICM-low patients, and poorer survival in ICM-high patients.CONCLUSIONS: High CYT within CRC is associated with improved survival, likely dueto increased immunity and cytolytic activity of T cells and M1 macrophages. High CYT is also associated with high expression of ICMs; thus, further studies toelucidate the role of CYT as a predictive biomarker of the efficacy of immunecheckpoint blockade are warranted.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6506-6 PMID: 29770915 