80. Aging (Albany NY). 2018 May 20;10(5):1027-1052. doi: 10.18632/aging.101446.Common and unique transcriptional responses to dietary restriction and loss ofinsulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) in mice.Page MM(#)(1), Schuster EF(#)(2), Mudaliar M(3)(4)(5), Herzyk P(6)(7), WithersDJ(8)(9), Selman C(10).Author information: (1)Institute des Sciences de la Vie, Faculty of Sciences, Université Catholiquede Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.(2)The Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research Centre The Institute of CancerResearch, London, UK.(3)Institute of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, College of Medical,Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.(4)Glasgow Molecular Pathology Node, College of Medical, Veterinary and LifeSciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.(5)Present address: Cerevance, Cambridge Science Park, Cambridge, UK.(6)Glasgow Polyomics, Wolfson Wohl Cancer Research Centre, University of Glasgow,Garscube Campus, Bearsden, UK.(7)Institute of Molecular, Cell and Systems Biology, College of Medical,Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.(8)MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences, London, UK.(9)Institute of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK.(10)Glasgow Ageing Research Network (GARNER), Institute of Biodiversity, AnimalHealth and Comparative Medicine, College of Medical, Veterinary and LifeSciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.(#)Contributed equallyDietary restriction (DR) is the most widely studied non-genetic interventioncapable of extending lifespan across multiple taxa. Modulation of genes,primarily within the insulin/insulin-like growth factor signalling (IIS) and the mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signalling pathways also act to extendlifespan in model organisms. For example, mice lacking insulin receptorsubstrate-1 (IRS1) are long-lived and protected against several age-associatedpathologies. However, it remains unclear how these particular interventions actmechanistically to produce their beneficial effects. Here, we investigatedtranscriptional responses in wild-type and IRS1 null mice fed an ad libitum diet (WTAL and KOAL) or fed a 30% DR diet (WTDR or KODR). Using an RNAseq approach we noted a high correlation coefficient of differentially expressed genes existedwithin the same tissue across WTDR and KOAL mice and many metabolic features wereshared between these mice. Overall, we report that significant overlap exists in the tissue-specific transcriptional response between long-lived DR mice and IRS1 null mice. However, there was evidence of disconnect between transcriptionalsignatures and certain phenotypic measures between KOAL and KODR, in thatadditive effects on body mass were observed but at the transcriptional level DRinduced a unique set of genes in these already long-lived mice.DOI: 10.18632/aging.101446 PMCID: PMC5990393PMID: 29779018 