125. Psychooncology. 2018 May 18. doi: 10.1002/pon.4771. [Epub ahead of print]Predicting nonadherence to adjuvant endocrine therapy in women with early stagebreast cancer.Corter AL(1), Broom R(2), Porter D(2), Harvey V(2), Findlay M(3).Author information: (1)Department of Psychological Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland, NewZealand.(2)Medical Oncology Department, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand.(3)Discipline of Oncology, Oncology, Auckland, New Zealand.BACKGROUND: Failing to take endocrine therapy (ET) as prescribed (nonadherence)increases risk of morbidity and mortality from breast cancer recurrence. Weexplored predictors of nonadherence, including demographic, clinical, treatment, and personal factors, among women newly prescribed ET for early stage breastcancer. We also examined predictors of their thoughts about stopping treatment(TST).METHODS: A baseline survey prior to ET assessed demographics, illness beliefs,beliefs about medicines, fear of recurrence, symptoms, and negative affect. Afollow-up survey at 3 months repeated these measures with additional questionsabout nonadherence and TST. Nonadherence and TST were analyzed using logistic andmultiple regression, respectively. Patient record review provided clinical data. The baseline survey was completed by 125 women, with a 96% retention rate atfollow-up.RESULTS: Thirty-six percent reported nonadherence, and 30% reported TST. Results of regression analyses showed that TST was most strongly associated with symptom severity at follow-up, whereas, lower coherence beliefs, and the absence ofcomorbid conditions were the strongest predictors of actual nonadherence.CONCLUSION: This is the first longitudinal study to examine concurrently theassociation of demographic, personal and treatment factors with nonadherence, andTST. Findings have potentially important clinical implications; interventions to improve adherence and reduce TST may need to target women's understanding oftheir diagnosis and treatment, illness beliefs, and symptoms prior to startingtherapy.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4771 PMID: 29776011 