178. J Trace Elem Med Biol. 2018 Jul;48:141-148. doi: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2018.03.021.Epub 2018 Mar 26.Seleno-l-methionine and l-ascorbic acid differentiate the biological activity of doxorubicin and its metal complexes as a new anticancer drugs candidate.Matejczyk M(1), Świderski G(2), Świsłocka R(2), Rosochacki SJ(2), LewandowskiW(2).Author information: (1)Bialystok University of Technology, Faculty of Civil Engineering andEnvironmental Engineering, Division of Chemistry, Biology and Biotechnology,Wiejska 45E, 15-351, Bialystok, Poland. Electronic address:m.matejczyk@pb.edu.pl.(2)Bialystok University of Technology, Faculty of Civil Engineering andEnvironmental Engineering, Division of Chemistry, Biology and Biotechnology,Wiejska 45E, 15-351, Bialystok, Poland.The most important problems of anti-cancer therapy include the toxicity of thedrugs applied to healthy cells and the multi-drug cells resistance tochemotherapeutics. One of the most commonly used anticancer drugs is doxorubicin (DOX) used to treat certain leukemias and non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, as well asbladder, breast, stomach, lung, ovarian, thyroid, multiple myeloma and othercancers. Preliminary studies showed that metal complex with DOX improve itscytostatic activity with changes in their molecular structure and distribution ofelectrons, resulting in a substantial change of its biological activity(including antitumor activity). Thus, there is a chance to receiving derivatives of DOX with low toxicity for the healthy body cells, thus increasing itstherapeutic selectivity. In the present study we examined the influence of Mn,Mg, Fe, Co and Ni, seleno-l-methionine and vitamin C on biological activity ofDOX in prokaryotic model - Escherichia coli RFM443, with plasmid transcriptional fusion of recA promoter and luxCDABE as a reporter gene. Cytotoxic potency oftested chemicals was calculated on the basis of the bacteria culture growthinhibition (GI%) values. Genotoxic properties were calculated on the basis of thefold increase (FI) of relative luminescence units (RLU) values compared tocontrol. Obtained results showed that doxorubicin metal complexes particularlywith Ni, Co and Fe increased the cyto- and genotoxic activities of DOX. Bacteria culture supplemented with SeMet and vitamin C differentiate the DOX and its metalcomplexes toxicity. It seems, that DOX-Ni, DOX-Fe and DOX-Co complexes could bepotent cytostatic drug candidates. Moreover, we noticed different sensitivity of recA::luxCDABE for 3 h and 24 h cultures of bacteria strain. It suggests, thatthe potency of genetic construct reactivity- recA::luxCDABE in E. coli depends onthe growth-phase of bacterial culture.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jtemb.2018.03.021 PMID: 29773172 