26. Front Immunol. 2018 May 2;9:825. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00825. eCollection 2018.Real-Time Tracking of Ex Vivo-Expanded Natural Killer Cells Toward HumanTriple-Negative Breast Cancers.Uong TNT(1)(2), Lee KH(3), Ahn SJ(1), Kim KW(2), Min JJ(4), Hyun H(5), YoonMS(1)(2)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Chonnam National University Hwasun Hospital,Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, South Korea.(2)Department of Biomedical Science, Chonnam National University Graduate School,Gwangju, South Korea.(3)Department of Pathology, Chonnam National University Hwasun Hospital, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, South Korea.(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Chonnam National University Hwasun Hospital,Hwasun, South Korea.(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chonnam National University Medical School,Gwangju, South Korea.(6)Research Center for Cancer Immunotherapy, Chonnam National University HwasunHospital, Jeollanam-do, South Korea.Introduction: Ex vivo-expanded natural killer (NK) cells are a potentialcandidate for cancer immunotherapy based on high cytotoxicity against malignanttumor cells. However, a limited understanding of the migration of activated NKcells toward solid tumors is a critical dilemma in the development of effectiveand adoptive NK cell-based immunotherapy.Methods: Ex vivo-expanded NK cells from healthy donors were stained withnear-infrared fluorophores at different concentrations. NK cell proliferation andcytotoxicity were assessed using a WST-8 assay, while the expression levels ofsurface molecules were analyzed by flow cytometry. To investigate thebiodistribution of NK cells in both normal and tumor-bearing NSG mice, NK cellslabeled with ESNF13 were subjected to NIR fluorescence imaging using theMini-FLARE imaging system. Finally, mice were sacrificed and histopathologicaltests were performed in resected organs.Results: The signal intensity of ESNF-stained NK cells was long-lasting at 72 husing concentrations as low as 0.04 µM. At a low dose range, ESNF13 did notaffect NK cell purity, expression levels of surface receptors, or cytotoxicfunctions against MDA-MB-231 cancer cells. Ex vivo-expanded NK cells labeled withESNF13 had a 4-h biodistribution in non-tumor-bearing NSG mice that mainlylocalized to the lungs immediately after injection and then fully migrated to thekidney after 4 h. In an MDA-MB-231 tumor-bearing NSG mice with extensivemetastasis in both lungs, the fluorescence signal was dominant in both lungs and steady at 1, 2, and 4 h post-injection. In a early phase of tumor progression,administered NK cell migrated to the lungs and tumor sites within 30 minpost-injection, the signal dominated the tumor site after 1 h, and remainedsteady at 4 h.Conclusion: Optical imaging with NIR fluorophore ESNF13 is a highly sensitive,applicable, and inexpensive method for the real-time tracking of ex vivo-expandedNK cells both in vitro and in vivo. Administered NK cells had different patterns of NK cell distribution and accumulation to the tumor site according to tumorprogression in triple-negative breast cancer xenograft models.DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00825 PMCID: PMC5941970PMID: 29770131 