90. Gene. 2018 Aug 30;669:91-98. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.05.037. Epub 2018 May 17.Germline cytoskeletal and extra-cellular matrix-related single nucleotidevariations associated with distinct cancer survival rates.Falasiri S(1), Rahman T(1), Tu YN(1), Fawcett TJ(2), Blanck G(3).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Morsani College of Medicine, University ofSouth Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.(2)Department of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,Research Computing, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, United States.(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Morsani College of Medicine, University ofSouth Florida, Tampa, FL, United States. Electronic address:gblanck@health.usf.edu.BACKGROUND: Human mutagenesis has a large stochastic component. Thus, largecoding regions, especially cytoskeletal and extra-cellular matrix protein (CECMP)coding regions are particularly vulnerable to mutations. Recent results haveverified a high level of somatic mutations in the CECMP coding regions in thecancer genome atlas (TCGA), and a relatively common occurrence of germline,deleterious mutations in the TCGA breast cancer dataset.METHODS: The objective of this study was to determine the correlations of CECMPcoding region, germline nucleotide variations with both overall survival (OS) anddisease-free survival (DFS). TCGA, tumor and blood variant calling files (VCFs)were intersected to identify germline SNVs. SNVs were then annotated to determinepotential consequences for amino acid (AA) residue biochemistry.RESULTS: Germline SNVs were matched against somatic tumor SNVs (i.e., tumormutations) over twenty TCGA datasets to identify 23 germline-somatic matched,deleterious AA substitutions in coding regions for FLG, TTN, MUC4, and MUC17.CONCLUSIONS: The germline-somatic matched SNVs, in particular for MUC4,extensively implicated in cancer development, represented highly, statisticallysignificant effects on OS and DFS survival rates. The above results contribute tothe establishment of what is potentially a new class of inheritedcancer-facilitating genes, namely dominant negative tumor suppressor proteins.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.05.037 PMID: 29778426  [Indexed for MEDLINE]