184. Breast J. 2018 May 21. doi: 10.1111/tbj.13067. [Epub ahead of print]Expression levels of breast cancer-related GAS5 and LSINCT5 lncRNAs incancer-free breast tissue: Molecular associations with age at menarche andobesity.Mansoori Y(1)(2), Tabei MB(3), Askari A(4)(5), Izadi P(1), Daraei A(6), BastamiM(7)(8), Naghizadeh MM(2), Nariman-Saleh-Fam Z(9), Mansoori B(2),Tavakkoly-Bazzaz J(1).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Genetics, School of Medicine, Tehran University ofMedical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(2)Noncommunicable Diseases Research Center, Fasa University of Medical Sciences,Fasa, Iran.(3)Department of Medical Genetics, School of Medical Sciences, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.(4)Department of Orthopedy, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.(5)Bone and Joint Reconstruction Research Center, Shafa Orthopedic Hospital, IranUniversity of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(6)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Babol University of MedicalSciences, Babol, Iran.(7)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz,Iran.(8)Hematology and Oncology Research Center, Tabriz University of MedicalSciences, Tabriz, Iran.(9)Women's Reproductive Health Research Center, Tabriz University of MedicalSciences, Tabriz, Iran.Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) constitute a major class of the human transcriptomewhich play crucial roles in the key biological processes of both normal andmalignant breast cells. Although the aberrant expression of lncRNAs has beenwell-documented in breast cancer (BC), little is currently known about theassociation between their expression levels in the breast tissue of healthy womenand BC risk factors, especially the reproductive or demographic characteristicsthat are among the most well-known BC risk modifiers. This study was an attemptto investigate the correlation between the expression levels of 2 breastcancer-related lncRNAs, including GAS5 and LSINCT5, and reproductive anddemographic characteristics in 145 normal breast tissues that were obtained from women without breast cancer undergoing cosmetic surgery. Total RNA was extracted from fresh normal breast tissues, and the expression level of target lncRNAs was quantified using real-time qPCR. Differences in the mean normalized geneexpression among the subgroups of different variables were analyzed. Theexpression levels of both genes was lower in the overweight-obese (BMI ≥ 25)subgroup than that in the normal BMI (BMI < 25) subgroup (GAS5 P = .019, LSINCT5 P = .036). Moreover, the expression level of GAS5 was negatively correlated with BMI (r: -.170, P: .041). The expression level of GAS5 was higher in women withlate menarche (>13 years) than that with early menarche (≤13 years; P = .017).These findings may assist to obtain insights into the molecular mechanismsthrough which the reproductive or obesity-related estrogen changes contribute to the breast carcinogenesis. In conclusion, this study presents the first evidence for the presence of a link between the lncRNA expression and the reproductive or obesity related factors in the breast tissue of healthy women.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1111/tbj.13067 PMID: 29785740 