31. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Aug 1;36(22):2326-2347. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8687. Epub2018 May 21.Practical Assessment and Management of Vulnerabilities in Older PatientsReceiving Chemotherapy: ASCO Guideline for Geriatric Oncology.Mohile SG(1), Dale W(1), Somerfield MR(1), Schonberg MA(1), Boyd CM(1), BurhennPS(1), Canin B(1), Cohen HJ(1), Holmes HM(1), Hopkins JO(1), Janelsins MC(1),Khorana AA(1), Klepin HD(1), Lichtman SM(1), Mustian KM(1), Tew WP(1), HurriaA(1).Author information: (1)Supriya G. Mohile, Michelle C. Janelsins, and Karen M. Mustian, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester; Beverly Canin, Breast Cancer Options,Kingston; Stuart M. Lichtman and William P. Tew, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; William Dale, Peggy S. Burhenn, and Arti Hurria, City ofHope, Duarte, CA; Mark R. Somerfield, American Society of Clinical Oncology,Alexandria, VA; Mara A. Schonberg, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center,Brookline, MA; Cynthia M. Boyd, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,Baltimore, MD; Harvey Jay Cohen, Duke University Medical Center, Durham; JudithO. Hopkins, Novant Health Oncology Specialists; Heidi D. Klepin, Wake ForestBaptist Comprehensive Cancer Center, Winston-Salem, NC; Holly M. Holmes, McGovernMedical School, Houston, TX; and Alok A. Khorana, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland,OH.Purpose To provide guidance regarding the practical assessment and management of vulnerabilities in older patients undergoing chemotherapy. Methods An ExpertPanel was convened to develop clinical practice guideline recommendations basedon a systematic review of the medical literature. Results A total of 68 studiesmet eligibility criteria and form the evidentiary basis for the recommendations. Recommendations In patients ≥ 65 years receiving chemotherapy, geriatricassessment (GA) should be used to identify vulnerabilities that are not routinelycaptured in oncology assessments. Evidence supports, at a minimum, assessment of function, comorbidity, falls, depression, cognition, and nutrition. The Panelrecommends instrumental activities of daily living to assess for function, athorough history or validated tool to assess comorbidity, a single question forfalls, the Geriatric Depression Scale to screen for depression, the Mini-Cog orthe Blessed Orientation-Memory-Concentration test to screen for cognitiveimpairment, and an assessment of unintentional weight loss to evaluate nutrition.Either the CARG (Cancer and Aging Research Group) or CRASH (Chemotherapy RiskAssessment Scale for High-Age Patients) tools are recommended to obtain estimatesof chemotherapy toxicity risk; the Geriatric-8 or Vulnerable Elders Survey-13 canhelp to predict mortality. Clinicians should use a validated tool listed atePrognosis to estimate noncancer-based life expectancy ≥ 4 years. GA resultsshould be applied to develop an integrated and individualized plan that informscancer management and to identify nononcologic problems amenable to intervention.Collaborating with caregivers is essential to implementing GA-guidedinterventions. The Panel suggests that clinicians take into account GA resultswhen recommending chemotherapy and that the information be provided to patientsand caregivers to guide treatment decision making. Clinicians should implementtargeted, GA-guided interventions to manage nononcologic problems. Additionalinformation is available at www.asco.org/supportive-care-guidelines .DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8687 PMCID: PMC6063790PMID: 29782209 