55. Ginekol Pol. 2018;89(4):175-182. doi: 10.5603/GP.a2018.0030.Wound fluids collected from patients after IORT treatment activates extrinsicapoptotic pathway in MCF7 breast cancer cell line.Kulcenty KI(1), Piotrowski I, Zaleska K, Murawa D, Suchorska WM.Author information: (1)Radiobiology Labolatory, Department of Medical Physics, Greater Poland Cancer Centre, Garbary 15 Street, 61-866 Poznań, Poland; Department of Electroradiology,University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland, Garbary 15 Street, 61-866 Poznań,Poland. katarzyna.kulcenty@wco.pl.OBJECTIVES: Intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) relates to irradiation of diseasedtissue during the surgery within the tumor bed. The reason for this process isbased on the fact that the increase in the radiation dose increases local tumorcontrol. It was shown that postoperative fluids obtained from patients afterbreast cancer conserving surgery, stimulated motility and invasiveness of tumorcells in vitro. The results obtained from TARGIT clinical trial demonstrated thatIORT significantly inhibits the stimulatory effect of wound fluids on tumor cellsin vitro. We therefore speculated that wound fluids collected from patients afterIORT treatment may induce the apoptosis in breast cancer cell lines and it may bea reason for their lower proliferation rate and potential to metastasis.MATERIAL AND METHODS: Breast cancer MCF7 cell line was incubated with woundfluids collected from patients after conserving breast cancer surgery or surgery followed by IORT for 4 days. Then the expression of markers associated withextrinsic or intrinsic apoptosis pathway was established.RESULTS: Our results clearly indicate activation of extrinsic apoptosis pathwayby wound fluids collected from patients after IORT treatment. No changes inapoptotic markers were seen in cells treated with wound fluids collected frompatients after the surgery alone.CONCLUSIONS: Thus we confirmed that wound fluids collected from patients afterIORT treatment may induce the apoptosis in breast cancer cell lines and it may bea reason for their lower proliferation rate and invasiveness of tumor cells invitro.DOI: 10.5603/GP.a2018.0030 PMID: 29781071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]