Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have noconflicts of interest to declare.62. PeerJ. 2018 May 15;6:e4805. doi: 10.7717/peerj.4805. eCollection 2018.Breast fibroblasts in both cancer and normal tissues induce phenotypictransformation of breast cancer stem cells: a preliminary study.Wang B(1), Xi C(1)(2), Liu M(3), Sun H(4), Liu S(4), Song L(3), Kang H(1).Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University,Beijing, China.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Shanxi Provincial People's Hospital, Taiyuan,Shanxi, China.(3)State Key Laboratory of Proteomics, National Center for Protein Sciences,Beijing Proteome Research Center, Beijing, China.(4)Surgery Lab, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.Background: Breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs) are associated with the invasion of breast cancer. In recent years, studies have demonstrated different phenotypesamong BCSCs. Furthermore, BCSCs of diverse phenotypes are present at differenttumour sites and different histological stages. Fibroblasts are involved in thephenotypic transformation of BCSCs. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs)participate in the induction of epithelial-mesenchymal transition, therebypromoting the acquisition of stem cell characteristics, but little is known aboutthe role of normal fibroblasts (NFs) in the phenotypic transformation of BCSCs orabout the effect of CAFs and NFs on BCSC phenotypes.Methods: A total of six pairs of primary CAFs and NFs were isolated from surgicalsamples of breast cancer patients and subjected to morphological,immunohistochemical, cell invasion and proteomics analyses. After establishing a cell culture system with conditioned medium from CAFs and NFs, we used themammosphere formation assay to explore the effect of CAFs and NFs on theself-renewal ability of BCSCs. The effect of CAFs and NFs on the phenotypicdifferentiation of BCSCs was further analysed by flow cytometry andimmunofluorescence.Results: The isolated CAFs and NFs did not show significant differences in cellmorphology or alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression, but cell invasion andproteomics analyses demonstrated heterogeneity among these fibroblasts. Both CAFsand NFs could promote the generation of BCSCs, but CAFs displayed a greaterability than NFs in promoting mammosphere formation. Conditioned medium from CAFsincreased the proportion of aldehyde dehydrogenase-1 positive (ALDH1+) BCSCs, butconditioned medium from NFs was more likely to promote the generation ofCD44+CD24- BCSCs from MCF-7 cells.Discussion: This study validated the heterogeneity among CAFs and NFs andexpanded on the conclusion that fibroblasts promote the generation of cancer stemcells. Our results particularly emphasized the effect of NFs on the phenotypictransformation of BCSCs. In addition, this study further highlighted the roles ofCAFs and NFs in the induction of different phenotypes in BCSCs.DOI: 10.7717/peerj.4805 PMCID: PMC5958881PMID: 29780673 