Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal's policy and the authors of this manuscript have the following competing interests: SMR holds shares inCantel Medical Corp and Edwards Lifesciences. AHP formerly served on an advisory board for Pfizer. FMK has had research funding and support through the MexicanHealth Foundation since 2009 from a multiplicity of business, includingpharmaceuticals. FMK has received support for cancer research from Roche, Pfizer,Novartis, Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline Oncology, and EMD Serono and travel supportfrom Roche. FMK is President of Tomatelo a Pecho, A.C., which promotes earlydetection of breast cancer in Mexico and throughout Latin America and theCaribbean. FMK is also the current president (2015-2018) of the Latin AmericanUnion Against Women’s Cancers, a coalition of Latin American NGOs. FMK has alsohad affiliations with The Oncologist, Mexican Coalition for Breast health,Jalisco Cancer Institute, Electronic Living Laboratory for InterdisciplinaryCancer Survivorship Research at Princess Margaret Hospital, Union forInternational Cancer Control, Sheikh Mohammed Hussein Al-Amoudi Center ofExcellence in Breast Cancer, and the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Thisdoes not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.160. PLoS One. 2018 May 22;13(5):e0196312. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0196312.eCollection 2018.Pharmacophore modeling for identification of anti-IGF-1R drugs and in-vitrovalidation of fulvestrant as a potential inhibitor.Khalid S(1)(2), Hanif R(1), Jabeen I(3), Mansoor Q(4), Ismail M(4).Author information: (1)Atta-ur-Rahman School of Applied Biosciences, National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan.(2)Northern Institute for Cancer Research, Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHSFoundation Trust, The Medical School, University of Newcastle upon Tyne,Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom.(3)Research Center for Modeling & Simulation (RCMS), National University ofSciences and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan.(4)Institute of Biomedical and Genetic Engineering (IBGE), KRL Hospital,Islamabad, Pakistan.Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) is an important therapeutic targetfor breast cancer treatment. The alteration in the IGF-1R associated signalingnetwork due to various genetic and environmental factors leads the system towardsmetastasis. The pharmacophore modeling and logical approaches have been appliedto analyze the behaviour of complex regulatory network involved in breast cancer.A total of 23 inhibitors were selected to generate ligand based pharmacophoreusing the tool, Molecular Operating Environment (MOE). The best model consistedof three pharmacophore features: aromatic hydrophobic (HyD/Aro), hydrophobic(HyD) and hydrogen bond acceptor (HBA). This model was validated against Worlddrug bank (WDB) database screening to identify 189 hits with the requiredpharmacophore features and was further screened by using Lipinski positivecompounds. Finally, the most effective drug, fulvestrant, was selected.Fulvestrant is a selective estrogen receptor down regulator (SERD). Thisinhibitor was further studied by using both in-silico and in-vitro approachesthat showed the targeted effect of fulvestrant in ER+ MCF-7 cells. Resultssuggested that fulvestrant has selective cytotoxic effect and a dose dependentresponse on IRS-1, IGF-1R, PDZK1 and ER-α in MCF-7 cells. PDZK1 can be animportant inhibitory target using fulvestrant because it directly regulatesIGF-1R.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0196312 PMCID: PMC5963753PMID: 29787591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]