178. Int J Cancer. 2018 May 22. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31607. [Epub ahead of print]An inhibitory antibody targeting carbonic anhydrase XII abrogates chemoresistanceand significantly reduces lung metastases in an orthotopic breast cancer model invivo.von Neubeck B(1), Gondi G(1), Riganti C(2), Pan C(3), Parra Damas A(3), ScherbH(4), Ertürk A(3), Zeidler R(1)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Gene Vectors, Helmholtz Center for Environmental Health, Munich,Germany.(2)Department of Oncology, University of Torino, via Santena 5/bis, 10126 Torino,Italy.(3)Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research, Klinikum der Universität München, Munich, Germany.(4)Institute of Computational Biology (ICB), Helmholtz Center for EnvironmentalHealth, Munich, Germany.(5)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Klinikum der Universität München, Munich,Germany.Carbonic anhydrase XII (CAXII) is a membrane-tethered ectoenzyme involved inintracellular pH regulation and overexpressed across various types of humancancer. Because CAXII inhibition shows antitumor activity in vitro, it is thoughtthat the enzyme is mandatory for maximum tumor growth, above all under hypoxicconditions. Recently, it has been shown that CAXII is co-expressed along with theP-glycoprotein (P-GP) on many tumor cells and that both proteins physicallyinteract. Of interest, blocking CAXII activity also decreases P-GP activity incancer cells both in vitro and in vivo. Previously, we have reported on thedevelopment of a monoclonal antibody, termed 6A10, which specifically andefficiently blocks human CAXII activity. Here, we demonstrate that 6A10 alsoindirectly reduces P-GP activity in CAXII/P-GP double-positive chemoresistantcancer cells, resulting in enhanced chemosensitivity as revealed by enhancedaccumulation of anthracyclines and increased cell death in vitro. Even moreimportant, we show that mice carrying human triple-negative breast cancerxenografts co-treated with doxorubicin (DOX) and 6A10 show a significantlyreduced number of metastases. Collectively, our data provide evidence that theinhibition of CAXII with 6A10 is an attractive way to reduce chemoresistance ofcancer cells and to interfere with the metastatic process in a clinical setting.© 2018 UICC.DOI: 10.1002/ijc.31607 PMID: 29786141 