30. Radiology. 2018 Jun;287(3):732-747. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2018172171.Precision Medicine and Radiogenomics in Breast Cancer: New Approaches towardDiagnosis and Treatment.Pinker K(1), Chin J(1), Melsaether AN(1), Morris EA(1), Moy L(1).Author information: (1)From the Department of Radiology, Breast Imaging Service, MemorialSloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY (K.P., J.C., E.A.M.); and Center for Advanced Imaging Innovation and Research, Laura and Isaac Perlmutter CancerCenter, New York University of Medicine, 160 E 34th St, New York, NY 10016(A.N.M., L.M.).Precision medicine is medicine optimized to the genotypic and phenotypiccharacteristics of an individual and, when present, his or her disease. It has a host of targets, including genes and their transcripts, proteins, andmetabolites. Studying precision medicine involves a systems biology approach thatintegrates mathematical modeling and biology genomics, transcriptomics,proteomics, and metabolomics. Moreover, precision medicine must consider not onlythe relatively static genetic codes of individuals, but also the dynamic andheterogeneous genetic codes of cancers. Thus, precision medicine relies not only on discovering identifiable targets for treatment and surveillance modification, but also on reliable, noninvasive methods of identifying changes in these targetsover time. Imaging via radiomics and radiogenomics is poised for a central role. Radiomics, which extracts large volumes of quantitative data from digital images and amalgamates these together with clinical and patient data into searchableshared databases, potentiates radiogenomics, which is the combination of genetic and radiomic data. Radiogenomics may provide voxel-by-voxel genetic informationfor a complete, heterogeneous tumor or, in the setting of metastatic disease, setof tumors and thereby guide tailored therapy. Radiogenomics may also quantifylesion characteristics, to better differentiate between benign and malignantentities, and patient characteristics, to better stratify patients according torisk for disease, thereby allowing for more precise imaging and screening. Thisreport provides an overview of precision medicine and discusses radiogenomicsspecifically in breast cancer. © RSNA, 2018.DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2018172171 PMID: 29782246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]