22. J Ethnopharmacol. 2018 Sep 15;223:41-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.05.021. Epub2018 May 18.The hydro-ethanolic extract of Acacia seyal (Mimosaceae) stem barks induced deathin an ER-negative breast cancer cell line by the intrinsic pathway of apoptosisand inhibited cell migration.Zingue S(1), Michel T(2), Cisilotto J(3), Tueche AB(4), Ndinteh DT(5), MelloLJ(3), Njamen D(6), Creczynski-Pasa TB(7).Author information: (1)Department of Life and Earth Sciences, Higher Teachers' Training College,University of Maroua, P.O. Box 55, Maroua, Cameroon; Department of AppliedChemistry, Faculty of Science, University of Johannesburg, Doornfontein 2028,South Africa; Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Health Sciences Centre,Federal University of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil.Electronic address: stephanezingue@gmail.com.(2)Institute of Chemistry of Nice, Faculty of Science, University Côte d'Azur,UMR CNRS 7272, Valrose Park, Nice Cedex 2, France.(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Health Sciences Centre, FederalUniversity of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil.(4)Department of Life and Earth Sciences, Higher Teachers' Training College,University of Maroua, P.O. Box 55, Maroua, Cameroon.(5)Department of Applied Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University ofJohannesburg, Doornfontein 2028, South Africa.(6)Department of Applied Chemistry, Faculty of Science, University ofJohannesburg, Doornfontein 2028, South Africa; Department of Animal Biology andPhysiology, Faculty of Science, University of Yaoundé 1, P.O. Box 812, Yaounde,Cameroon.(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Health Sciences Centre, FederalUniversity of Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil. Electronicaddress: tania.pasa@ufsc.br.BACKGROUND: Despite the significant developments occurring in the treatment ofcancer, it still remains the second deadly disease, responsible for 8.2 milliondeaths every year. Various natural substances have been studied for activemolecules of tumor suppression in the past and the tropical flora, by itsdiversity, continues to provide new antitumor drugs. Acacia seyal is a plant usedin Cameroonian traditional system to treat cancer. It exhibited cytotoxic effectstowards human breast adenocarcinoma cells. The present work was thereforedesigned to elucidate the underlying mechanisms by which A. seyal extract inducedits cytotoxic effect.METHODS: The cell death mechanism (apoptosis or necrosis) and cell cycle analyseswere assessed using flow cytometry. The levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm), caspases activities as well as Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL protein contents were assessed in MDA-MB-231 cells. Afterwards, cellmigration/invasion was also assessed.RESULTS: The A. seyal extract induced apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells, while itfailed to do so in MCF-7 cells. It induced cell cycle arrest in G2/M phase.Further it induced a decrease in ΔΨm, an increase in ROS levels and caspasesactivities as well as a down regulation in Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL protein contents inMDA-MB-231 cells. Moreover, A. seyal extract exhibited anti-migration,anti-invasion activities in MDA-MB-231 cells.CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that A. seyal extract induced its antitumoreffects mainly by interference in metastasis related events, by triggeringapoptosis through a ROS-mediated mitochondrial pathway.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.05.021 PMID: 29783017 