Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competinginterests.Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional affiliations.25. PLoS One. 2018 May 21;13(5):e0197522. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197522.eCollection 2018.Leucocytes telomere length and breast cancer risk/ susceptibility: A case-controlstudy.Pavanello S(1), Varesco L(2), Gismondi V(2), Bruzzi P(3), Bolognesi C(4).Author information: (1)Unit of Occupational Medicine, Department of Cardiac, Thoracic and VascularSciences, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.(2)Unit of Hereditary Cancer Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genova, Italy.(3)Unit of Clinical Epidemiology, Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genova,Italy.(4)Unit of Environmental Carcinogenesis Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Genova,Italy.BACKGROUND: Telomere length in peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL-TL) was proposed as a biomarker of cancer risk. Recent scientific evidence suggested PBL-TL plays a diverse role in different cancers. Inconsistent results were obtained on PBL-TLin relation to breast cancer risk and specifically to the presence of BRCA1 andBRCA2 mutations. The aim of the present case-control study was to analyse thecorrelation between family history of breast cancer or presence of a BRCAmutation and PBL-TL in the hypothesis that TL is a modifier of cancer risk.METHODS: PBL-TL was measured using the real-time quantitative PCR method in DNAfor 142 cases and 239 controls. All the women enrolled were characterized forcancer family history. A subgroup of 48 women were classified for the presence ofa BRCA mutation. PBL-TL were summarized as means and standard deviations, andcompared by standard analysis of variance. A multivariable Generalised LinearModel was fitted to the data with PBL-TL as the dependent variable, case/control status and presence of a BRCA/VUS mutation as factors, and age in 4 strata as acovariate.RESULTS: Age was significantly associated with decreasing PBL-TL in controls (p =0.01), but not in BC cases. The telomere length is shorter in cases than incontrols after adjusting for age. No effect on PBL-TL of BMI, smoke nor of themost common risk factors for breast cancer was observed. No association betweenPBL-TL and family history was detected both in BC cases and controls. In themultivariate model, no association was observed between BRCA mutation anddecreased PBL-TL. A statistically significant interaction (p = 0.031) betweencase-control status and a BRCA-mutation/VUS was observed, but no effect wasdetected for the interaction of cancer status and BRCA or VUS.CONCLUSION: Our study fails to provide support to the hypothesis that PBL-TL isassociated with the risk of hereditary BC, or that is a marker of inheritedmutations in BRCA genes.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197522 PMCID: PMC5962062PMID: 29782524 