20. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2018 Sep 30;160:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.05.025.Epub 2018 May 21.Prediction of the combined effects of multiple estrogenic chemicals on MCF-7human breast cancer cells and a preliminary molecular exploration of theestrogenic proliferative effects and related gene expression.Yuan S(1), Huang C(1), Ji X(1), Ma M(2), Rao K(3), Wang Z(3).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Drinking Water Science and Technology, Research Center forEco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100085, China;College of Resources and Environment Science, University of Chinese Academy ofSciences, Beijing 100049, China.(2)Key Laboratory of Drinking Water Science and Technology, Research Center forEco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100085, China;College of Resources and Environment Science, University of Chinese Academy ofSciences, Beijing 100049, China. Electronic address: mamei@rcees.ac.cn.(3)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Aquatic Chemistry, Research Center forEco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100085, China.The environmental risks of environmental estrogens (EEs) are often assessed viathe same mode of action in the concentration addition (CA) model, neglecting the complex combined mechanisms at the genetic level. In this study, the cellproliferation effects of estrone, 17α-ethinylestradiol, 17β-estradiol, estriol,diethylstilbestrol, estradiol valerate, bisphenol A, 4-tert-octylphenol and4-nonylphenol were determined individually using the CCK-8 method, and theproliferation effects of a multicomponent mixture of estrogenic chemicals mixedat equipotent concentrations using a fixed-ratio design were studied usingestrogen-sensitive MCF-7 cells. Furthermore, transcription factors related tocell proliferation were analyzed using RT-PCR assays to explore the potentialmolecular mechanisms related to the estrogenic proliferative effects. The resultsshowed that the estrogenic chemicals act together in an additive mode, and thecombined proliferative effects could be predicted more accurately by the responseaddition model than the CA model with regard to their adverse outcomes.Furthermore, different signaling pathways were involved depending on thedifferent mixtures. The RT-PCR analyses showed that different estrogens havedistinct avidities and preferences for different estrogen receptors at the genelevel. Furthermore, the results indicated that estrogenic mixtures increased ERα,PIK3CA, GPER, and PTEN levels and reduced Akt1 level to display combinedestrogenicity. These findings indicated that the potential combined environmentalrisks were greater than those found in some specific assessment procedures based on a similar mode of action due to the diversity of environmental pollutions and their multiple unknown modes of action. Thus, more efforts are needed formode-of-action-driven analyses at the molecular level. Furthermore, to moreaccurately predict and assess the individual responses in vivo from the cellular effects in vitro, more parameters and correction factors should be taken intoconsideration in the addition model.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.05.025 PMID: 29783106 