151. Carcinogenesis. 2018 May 17. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgy064. [Epub ahead of print]Aspirin Abrogates Impairment of Mammary Gland Differentiation induced by Early inLife Second-hand Smoke in Mice.Santucci-Pereira J(1), Pogash TJ(1), Patel A(1), Hundal N(1), Barton M(1)(2),Camoirano A(3), Micale RT(3), La Maestra S(3), Balansky R(3)(4), De Flora S(3),Russo J(1).Author information: (1)The Irma H. Russo, MD Breast Cancer Research Laboratory, Fox Chase CancerCenter - Temple University Health System, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(2)Biochemistry Department, Lewis Katz School of Medicine, Temple University,Philadelphia, PA, USA.(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.(4)National Center of Oncology, Sofia, Bulgaria.Epidemiological studies show that there is limited evidence that tobacco smoking causes breast cancer in humans. In rodents, many tobacco smoke chemicals causemammary gland tumors. This study evaluated the mammary gland differentiation inmice exposed to environmental cigarette smoke (ECS), using 3R4F Kentuckyreference cigarettes, starting after birth and continuing daily for 10 weeks(total particulate exposure 95 mg/m3; CO 610 ppm). We also analyzed the effectsof oral administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), aspirin (1600mg/kg) or naproxen (320mg/kg), on mammary gland differentiation, either inunexposed or ECS-exposed mice. The ECS exposure caused delay of mammary glandsdevelopment. We speculate that this delay may result from aryl hydrocarbonreceptor (AHR) signaling activation, which has an antiestrogenic effect andcrosstalk to the estrogen metabolism pathway. Similarly, naproxen impaired gland differentiation in unexposed and ECS-exposed mice, while aspirin hindered itsdevelopment only in unexposed mice. The lack of differentiation induced by theNSAIDs could be explained by their antiestrogenic effect through inhibition ofaldo-keto reductases. In ECS-exposed animals, aspirin induced intense lobularformation, which could indicate that aspirin is counteracting the AHR signalinginduced by ECS. Based on the differentiation induced by aspirin in ECS-exposedanimals, we postulate that these mice would be less susceptible to mammarycarcinogenesis. Our results suggest that exposure to smoke at an early ageimpairs the development of the mammary gland, thus resulting in a longer periodof susceptibility and increased risk of breast cancer. However, addition ofaspirin can abrogate this effect.DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgy064 PMCID: PMC6067120 [Available on 2019-07-30]PMID: 29788174 