35. Ann Plast Surg. 2018 Aug;81(2):228-234. doi: 10.1097/SAP.0000000000001461.The Effect of Postmastectomy Radiation Therapy on Breast Implants: MaterialAnalysis on Silicone and Polyurethane Prosthesis.Lo Torto F, Relucenti M(1), Familiari G(1), Vaia N, Casella D(2), Matassa R(1),Miglietta S(1), Marinozzi F(3), Bini F(3), Fratoddi I(4), Sciubba F(4), CasseseR(5), Tombolini V(5), Ribuffo D.Author information: (1)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology, Forensic Medicine and OrthopaedicsSection of Human Anatomy Electron Microscopy Unit, Laboratory "Pietro M. Motta"Faculty of Pharmacy and Medicine, University of Rome La Sapienza.(2)Breast Unit, Department of Oncologic and Reconstructive Breast Surgery,"Breast Unit Integrata di Livorno, Cecina, Piombino, Elba, Azienda USL ToscanaNord Ovest".(3)Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, "Sapienza" University ofRome.(4)Department of Chemistry, Sapienza University of Rome.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Rome, Italy.INTRODUCTION: The pathogenic mechanism underlying capsular contracture is stillunknown. It is certainly a multifactorial process, resulting from human bodyreaction, biofilm activation, bacteremic seeding, or silicone exposure. The scopeof the present article is to investigate the effect of hypofractionatedradiotherapy protocol (2.66 Gy × 16 sessions) both on silicone and polyurethanebreast implants.METHODS: Silicone implants and polyurethane underwent irradiation according to a hypofractionated radiotherapy protocol for the treatment of breast cancer. After irradiation implant shells underwent mechanical, chemical, and microstructuralevaluation by means of tensile testing, infrared spectra in attenuated totalreflectance mode, nuclear magnetic resonance, and field emission scanningelectron microscopy.RESULTS: At superficial analysis, irradiated silicone samples show severalvisible secondary and tertiary blebs. Polyurethane implants showed an open cellstructure, which closely resembles a sponge. Morphological observation of struts from treated polyurethane sample shows a more compact structure, withsignificantly shorter and thicker struts compared with untreated sample. Theinfrared spectra in attenuated total reflectance mode spectra of irradiated andcontrol samples were compared either for silicon and polyurethane samples. In thecase of silicone-based membranes, treated and control specimens showed similarbands, with little differences in the treated one. Nuclear magnetic resonancespectra on the fraction soluble in CDCl3 support these observations. Tensiletests on silicone samples showed a softer behavior of the treated ones. Tensiletests on Polyurethane samples showed no significant differences.CONCLUSIONS: Polyurethane implants seem to be more resistant to radiotherapydamage, whereas silicone prosthesis showed more structural, mechanical, andchemical modifications.DOI: 10.1097/SAP.0000000000001461 PMID: 29781852 