40. Basic Clin Pharmacol Toxicol. 2018 May 21. doi: 10.1111/bcpt.13042. [Epub aheadof print]IL-6 Triggers the Migration and Invasion of Oestrogen Receptor-Negative BreastCancer Cells via Regulation of Hippo Pathways.Hou L(1)(2)(3), Xie S(3), Li G(4), Xiong B(3), Gao Y(3), Zhao X(3), Hu J(5), DengS(6), Jiang J(1).Author information: (1)Breast Disease Center, Southwest Hospital, Army Medical University, Chongqing,China.(2)Department of Thyroid and Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital ofChengdu Medical College, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.(3)Department of Thyroid Breast Surgery, The Affiliated Hospital of North SichuanMedical College, Nanchong, Sichuan, China.(4)Department of Radiology, Yueyang Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, China.(5)Department of Radiology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA.(6)Department of Anatomy, The North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong, Sichuan,China.Breast cancer is one of the major challenges for women's health. However, therole and mechanisms of interleukins (ILs) on the progression of breast cancer arenot well illustrated. Our present study revealed that the expressions of IL-6 andIL-8 were significantly increased in oestrogen receptor-negative (ER-) breastcancer cells. Increased expression of IL-6 was observed in 83.9% (26/31) ER-breast cancer tissues as compared with their matched adjacent normal tissues. In vitro studies indicated that IL-6 can significantly promote the migration andinvasion of ER- breast cancer cells via increasing the dephosphorylation, nucleartranslocation and transcriptional activities of YAP in breast cancer cells.Knockdown of YAP can attenuate IL-6-induced migration and invasion of cancercells, suggesting that YAP plays an essential role in IL-6-induced malignancy of breast cancer cells. Furthermore, IL-6 treatment also decreased thephosphorylation of LATS1/2. The knockdown of LATS1/2 synergistically suppressedsi-IL-6-induced deactivation of YAP. Targeted inhibition of IL-6/YAP cansignificantly suppress the invasion of ER- breast cancer cells. Collectively, ourstudy revealed that IL-6 can trigger the malignancy of breast cancer cells viaactivation of YAP signals. Targeted inhibition of IL-6/YAP might be a noveltherapeutic approach for the treatment of ER- breast cancer.© 2018 Nordic Association for the Publication of BCPT (former NordicPharmacological Society).DOI: 10.1111/bcpt.13042 PMID: 29781562 