164. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Aug 10;36(23):2433-2443. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8604. Epub2018 May 22.Selection of Optimal Adjuvant Chemotherapy and Targeted Therapy for Early Breast Cancer: ASCO Clinical Practice Guideline Focused Update.Denduluri N(1), Chavez-MacGregor M(1), Telli ML(1), Eisen A(1), Graff SL(1),Hassett MJ(1), Holloway JN(1), Hurria A(1), King TA(1), Lyman GH(1), PartridgeAH(1), Somerfield MR(1), Trudeau ME(1), Wolff AC(1), Giordano SH(1).Author information: (1)Neelima Denduluri, The US Oncology Network, Virginia Cancer Specialists; JamieN. Holloway, Georgetown Breast Cancer Advocates, Arlington; Mark R. Somerfield,American Society of Clinical Oncology, Alexandria, VA; Mariana Chavez-MacGregorand Sharon H. Giordano, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston,TX; Melinda L. Telli, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford; ArtiHurria, City of Hope, Duarte, CA; Andrea Eisen and Maureen E. Trudeau, SunnybrookOdette Cancer Centre; Andrea Eisen and Maureen E. Trudeau, Cancer Care Ontario,Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Stephanie L. Graff, Sarah Cannon Cancer Institute HCAMidwest Health, Kansas City, MO; Michael J. Hassett, Tari A. King, and Ann H.Partridge, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; Tari A. King, Brigham & Women's CancerCenter, Boston, MA; Gary H. Lyman, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,Seattle, WA; Antonio C. Wolff, Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center, Baltimore, MD.Purpose To update key recommendations of the ASCO guideline adaptation of theCancer Care Ontario guideline on the selection of optimal adjuvant chemotherapyregimens for early breast cancer and adjuvant targeted therapy for breast cancer.Methods An Expert Panel conducted targeted systematic literature reviews guidedby a signals approach to identify new, potentially practice-changing data thatmight translate to revised practice recommendations. Results The Expert Panelreviewed phase III trials that evaluated adjuvant capecitabine after completionof standard preoperative anthracycline- and taxane-based combination chemotherapyby patients with early-stage breast cancer HER2-negative breast cancer withresidual invasive disease at surgery; the addition of 1 year of adjuvantpertuzumab to combination chemotherapy and trastuzumab for patients withearly-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer; and the use of neratinib as extendedadjuvant therapy for patients after combination chemotherapy andtrastuzumab-based adjuvant therapy with early-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer.Recommendations Patients with early-stage HER2-negative breast cancer withpathologic, invasive residual disease at surgery following standardanthracycline- and taxane-based preoperative therapy may be offered up to six to eight cycles of adjuvant capecitabine. Clinicians may add 1 year of adjuvantpertuzumab to trastuzumab-based combination chemotherapy in patients withhigh-risk, early-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer. Clinicians may use extended adjuvant therapy with neratinib to follow trastuzumab in patients withearly-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer. Neratinib causes substantial diarrhea, and diarrhea prophylaxis must be used. Additional information can be found atwww.asco.org/breast-cancer-guidelines .DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.78.8604 PMID: 29787356 