132. Am J Case Rep. 2018 May 23;19:593-598. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.909161.T1-Weighted Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) toDistinguish Between Concurrent Cholesterol Granuloma and Invasive DuctalCarcinoma of the Breast: A Case Report.Hu CC(1), Chang TH(1)(2), Hsu HH(1), Pen YJ(3), Yu JC(4).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, Tri-Service General Hospital, National DefenseMedical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.(2)Department of Radiology, Kang-Ning General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.(3)Department of Pathology, Tri-Service General Hospital, National DefenseMedical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.(4)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, Tri-Services GeneralHospital, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.BACKGROUND Cholesterol granuloma is a benign condition that can be misdiagnosedas breast cancer on mammographic and ultrasound imaging. A case of concomitantcholesterol granuloma with invasive ductal carcinoma of the left breast wasimaged with ultrasound elastography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods,including T1-weighted dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI), before biopsy and histopathology. CASE REPORT A 52-year-old woman, with a previous history ofintraduct papillomas in both breasts, underwent six-monthly follow-up breastimaging. The most recent breast mammogram showed a progressively enlarging ovalmass in the upper inner quadrant (UIQ) of the left breast, and an adjacentirregular mass with microcalcifications. Virtual Touch IQ (VTIQ) shear waveelastography was used with ultrasound of the breast lesions. T1-weighted fatsaturation (T1WFS) MRI, T2-weighted short-tau inversion recovery (STIR) MRI, and T1-weighted DCE-MRI were used to image the left breast. T1-weighted DCE-MRIshowed that the oval lesion had a high T1-weighted signal and mild progressiveenhancement, with a Type I (benign) time-signal intensity curve; the second,irregular, mass showed rapid, intense enhancement with a washout pattern or Type III (malignant) time-signal intensity curve. Histopathology confirmed that theoval mass was a cholesterol granuloma, and the irregular mass was an invasiveductal carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS A case of concomitant cholesterol granuloma withinvasive ductal carcinoma of the left breast, showed that ultrasound with shearwave elastography and T1-weighted DCE-MRI could distinguish between cholesterolgranuloma and invasive ductal carcinoma.DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.909161 PMCID: PMC5994963PMID: 29789520 