108. Bioconjug Chem. 2018 Jun 20;29(6):1973-2000. doi:10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.8b00208. Epub 2018 May 30.Design and Development of Polysaccharide-Doxorubicin-Peptide Bioconjugates forDual Synergistic Effects of Integrin-Targeted and Cell-Penetrating Peptides forCancer Chemotherapy.Mansur AAP, Carvalho SM, Lobato ZIP, Leite MF, Cunha ADS Jr, Mansur HS.Polymer-drug conjugation is an attractive approach for target deliveringinsoluble and highly toxic drugs to tumor sites to overcome the side-effectscaused by cancer chemotherapy. In this study we designed and synthesized novelpolymer-drug-peptide conjugates for improved specificity on targeting cancercells. Chemically modified polysaccharide, carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), wasconjugated with doxorubicin (DOX) anticancer drug by amide bonds and duallybiofunctionalized with integrin-target receptor tripeptide (RGD) and l-arginine(R) as cell-penetrating amino acid for synergistic targeting and enhancinginternalization by cancer cells. These bioconjugates were tested as prodrugsagainst bone, breast, and brain cancer cell lines (SAOS, MCF7, and U87) and anormal cell line (HEK 293T, reference). The physicochemical characterizationshowed the formation of amide bonds between carboxylates (-RCOO-) from CMCbiopolymer and amino groups (-NH2) from DOX and peptides (RGD or R). Moreover,these polymer-drug-peptide bioconjugates formed nanoparticulate colloidalstructures and behaved as "smart" drug delivery systems (DDS) promotingremarkable reduction of the cytotoxicity toward normal cells (HEK 293T) whileretaining high killing activity against cancer cells. Based on cell viabilitybioassays, DNA-staining, and confocal laser microscopy, this effect was assigned to the association of physicochemical aspects with the difference of theendocytic pathways and the drug release rates in live cells caused by thebiofunctionalization of the macromolecule-drug systems with RGD and l-arginine.In addition, chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay was performed as an invivo xenograft model test, which endorsed the in vitro results of anticanceractivities of these polymer-drug systems. Thus, prodrug nanocarriers based onCMC-DOX-peptide bioconjugates were developed for simultaneouslyintegrin-targeting and high killing efficacy against cancer cells, whilepreserving healthy cells with promising perspectives in cancer chemotherapy.DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.8b00208 PMID: 29790738 