13. Eur J Public Health. 2018 May 22. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cky085. [Epub ahead ofprint]The Screening Illustrator: separating the effects of lead-time and overdiagnosis in mammography screening.Lousdal ML(1), Møller MH(1), Kristiansen IS(2), Kalager M(2)(3), Wisløff T(2)(4),Støvring H(1).Author information: (1)Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.(2)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, Institute of Health and Society, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.(3)Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.(4)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Modelling, NorwegianInstitute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.Background: Mammography screening increases incidence because cancers aredetected earlier in time and because of overdiagnosis. We developed anExcel-based model to visualize the expected increase from lead-time amplified by increasing background incidence. Subsequently, we added overdiagnosis to themodel.Methods: We constructed two hypothetical populations of women aged 50-79 in5-year age and calendar groups: one with screening for women aged 50-69 and onewithout. The user enters information on population at risk, number of breastcancers, trends in background incidence, average length of lead-time and,optionally, overdiagnosis. The model computes incidence rate ratios (IRRs)comparing incidence changes with screening to changes without in open and closed cohorts.Results: We entered information from Norway from 1990 to 1994, the periodpreceding the gradual introduction of a national mammography screening programme.As expected, the Screening Illustrator showed prevalence peaks and compensatorydrops. Only the closed cohort approach remained unaffected by increasingbackground incidence. The model showed a 20% sustained increase in incidence(IRR: 1.20) from lead-time and increasing background incidence in the open cohortapproach for women aged 50-69. However, real life Norwegian data show acorresponding 38% increase. For the model to achieve the observed incidence,10-14% overdiagnosis had to be added.Conclusion: The observed breast cancer incidence increase in Norway afterscreening implementation could not be obtained from an average lead-time of 2.5years and empirical background incidence trends, but had to incorporateoverdiagnosis.DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cky085 PMID: 29796623 