73. ACS Nano. 2018 Jul 24;12(7):6563-6576. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.8b01308. Epub 2018Jun 4.Eradication of Established Tumors by Chemically Self-Assembled Nanoring Labeled TCells.Petersburg JR, Shen J, Csizmar CM, Murphy KA, Spanier J, Gabrielse K, GriffithTS, Fife B, Wagner CR.Our laboratory has developed chemically self-assembled nanorings (CSANs) asprosthetic antigen receptors (PARs) for the nongenetic modification of T cellsurfaces. PARs have been successfully employed in vitro to activate T cells forthe selective killing of leukemia cells. However, PAR efficacy has yet to beevaluated in vivo or against solid tumors. Therefore, we developed bispecificPARs that selectively target the human CD3 receptor and human epithelial celladhesion molecule (EpCAM), which is overexpressed on multiple carcinomas andcancer stem cells. The αEpCAM/αCD3 PARs were found to stably bind T cells for >4 days, and treating EpCAM+ MCF-7 breast cancer cells with αEpCAM/αCD3PAR-functionalized T cells resulted in the induction of IL-2, IFN-γ, and MCF-7cytotoxicity. Furthermore, an orthotopic breast cancer model validated theability of αEpCAM/αCD3 PAR therapy to direct T cell lytic activity toward EpCAM+ breast cancer cells in vivo, leading to tumor eradication. In vivobiodistribution studies demonstrated that PAR-T cells were formed in vivo andpersist for over 48 h with rapid accumulation in tumor tissue. Following PARtreatment, the production of IL-2, IFN-γ, IL-6, and TNF-α could be significantly reduced by an infusion of clinically relevant concentrations of the FDA-approved antibiotic, trimethoprim, signaling pharmacologic PAR deactivation. Importantly, CSANs did not induce naïve T cell activation and thus exhibit a limited potentialto induce naïve T cell anergy. In addition, murine immunogenicity studiesdemonstrated that CSANs do not induce a significant antibody response nor do theyactivate splenic cells. Collectively, our results demonstrate that bispecificCSANs are able to nongenetically generate reversibly modified T cells that arecapable of eradicating targeted solid tumors.DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.8b01308 PMID: 29792808 