Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest189. Indian J Cancer. 2017 Jul-Sep;54(3):539-542. doi: 10.4103/ijc.IJC_385_17.Interneural tissue clearance in axillary dissection for breast cancer: What isthe importance?Patel PK(1), Sinha AK(1), Saini S(1).Author information: (1)Bhagwan Mahaveer Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Jaipur, Rajasthan,India.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women and second mostcommon type of cancer overall. The prime objectives of axillary surgery in themanagement of breast cancer are 1) accurate staging, 2) treatment to cure and 3) quantitative information of metastatic lymph nodes for prognostic purposes andallocation to adjuvant protocols. During axillary dissection, all 3 levellymphnodes are removed, while the important axillary structures (axillary vein,long thoracic and thoracodorsal nerves) are preserved. The latter two structures are particularly vulnerable to injury when dissecting the tissue between them(the interneural tissue).METHODS: This prospective non-randomized study, conducted on 125 female patients,who underwent axillary lymphadenectomy for breast cancer has evaluated theimportance of dissection of the Interneural tissue during axillary dissection in breast cancer surgery by reviewing the lymph node yield and metastasis rate. The interneural tissue was excised separately after a routine axillary dissection.RESULTS: Lymph nodes were found in the interneural tissue of 70 out of 125patients (56%). The average number of interneural lymph nodes recovered perspecimen was 1.3. The interneural tissue lymph nodes were positive for metastasisin 10 (8%) patients. There was no incidence of isolated metastasis in theinternerve tissue nodes.CONCLUSIONS: There is a significant incidence of lymph nodes (56%) and axillarynode metastases (8%) in the tissue lying between the long thoracic andthoracodorsal nerves. Therefore, meticulous dissection and excision of thisinterneural tissue is strongly recommended to optimize decision making regarding adjuvant treatment and outcome.DOI: 10.4103/ijc.IJC_385_17 PMID: 29798954 