103. Med Phys. 2018 May 23. doi: 10.1002/mp.12990. [Epub ahead of print]Development of a 3D ultrasound guidance system for permanent breast seedimplantation.Michael J(1)(2), Morton D(3)(4), Batchelar D(3), Hilts M(3)(4), Crook J(5),Fenster A(1)(2)(6).Author information: (1)Robarts Research Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London,Ontario, N6A 5B7, Canada.(2)Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program, The University of Western Ontario,London, Ontario, N6A 5B7, Canada.(3)Department of Medical Physics, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Cancer Centerfor the Southern Interior, Kelowna, British Columbia, V1Y 5L3, Canada.(4)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Victoria, Victoria, BritishColumbia, V8P 5C2, Canada.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Agency, CancerCenter for the Southern Interior, Kelowna, British Columbia, V1Y 5L3, Canada.(6)Departments of Medical Biophysics and Medical Imaging, The University ofWestern Ontario, London, Ontario, N6A 5B7, Canada.PURPOSE: Permanent breast seed implantation (PBSI) is a promising radiotherapytechnique for early-stage breast cancer, completed in a single visit bypermanently implanting 103 Pd seeds using needles inserted through a template andguided by two-dimensional (2D) ultrasound (US). However, operator dependence has been highlighted as a limitation of this procedure. Consequently, we propose and have developed an intraoperative guidance system using three-dimensional (3D) US and an instrumented mechanical arm to provide intraoperative 3D imaging andneedle template tracking.METHODS: A mechatronic 3D US scanner reconstructs a 3D image from 150 2D images. A tracked mechanical arm mounted to the scanner locates four fiducial points onthe template, registering the template to the 3D image. 3D reconstruction wasvalidated for linear and volumetric measurement accuracy using phantoms of known geometry. In vivo breast US image quality was evaluated in a healthy volunteer.The encoded arm was calibrated and validated using a jig with divots at knownlocations relative to the scanner and the scanner registered to the 3D US imageusing intersecting strings in a fluid-filled test jig. Template registrationaccuracy was assessed using a machined test jig. Tracking accuracy was assessedin a liquid medium by comparing tracked and imaged needle tip positions. Finally,the system was used to guide a mock procedure in a patient-specific phantom andmicro-CT imaging used to evaluate its accuracy.RESULTS: Geometric validation showed median distances within ±1.1% of expectedvalues and volumetric validation showed differences of ≤4.1%. Tracking arm point measurements showed an average error of 0.43 mm and 3D US volume registrationshowed target registration error ≤0.9 mm. Mean template registration accuracy in each axis of translation/rotation was ≤1.3 mm/1.0°. Mean needle-targeting errorwas 2.5 mm and 1.6° for needle tips and trajectories, respectively. Mean needletip and angular errors of the phantom procedure were 2.1 mm and 2.6°. Modeledseed displacement of the phantom procedure showed mean error of 2.6 mm and amaximum of 3.8 mm.CONCLUSIONS: A 3D US guidance system for PBSI has been developed. Benchtopperformance and image quality in volunteer scans are satisfactory. A phantom PBSIprocedure was successfully delivered using the system with maximum seed errorwithin dosimetric benchmarks (<5 mm). Translation of the device into the clinicis forthcoming.© 2018 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mp.12990 PMID: 29791029 