184. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2018 Jun;24(6):504-513. doi:10.18553/jmcp.2018.24.6.504.Greater Spending Associated with Improved Survival for Some Cancers inOCM-Defined Episodes.Baumgardner J(1), Shahabi A(1), Linthicum M(1), Vine S(1), Zacker C(2),Lakdawalla D(3).Author information: (1)1 Precision Health Economics, Los Angeles, California.(2)2 Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, New Jersey.(3)3 Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy & Economics, University ofSouthern California, Los Angeles.BACKGROUND: Previous research finds significant variation in spending andutilization across regions, with little evidence of differences in outcomes.While such findings have been interpreted as evidence that spending can bereduced without compromising patient outcomes, the link between spendingvariation and outcomes remains a critical question.OBJECTIVE: To use evidence from geographic variations in spending and anindividual-level survival analysis to test whether spending within oncology care episodes is associated with survival, where episodes are defined as in the Centerfor Medicare and Medicaid Innovation's Oncology Care Model (OCM).METHODS: In this retrospective cohort analysis, patient data from theSurveillance, Epidemiology and End Results Medicare (SEER-Medicare) database for 2007-2013 were linked to hospital referral regions (HRRs) using ZIP codes.Patients in the SEER program are a part of selected population-based cancerregistries throughout the United States whose records are linked to Medicareenrollment and claims data (93% of elderly registry patients were successfullylinked to Medicare data). Episodes of cancer care were defined as in the OCM: 6months following a triggering chemotherapy claim. We analyzed episodes of carefor 5 tumor types: advanced breast cancer (BC), non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC), renal cell carcinoma (RCC), multiple myeloma (MM), and chronic myeloidleukemia (CML). We removed the effects of differentials in Medicare paymentrates, which were mostly geographic. Regression analysis was then used tocalculate standardized spending levels for each HRR, that is, spending adjustedfor differences in patient and episode characteristics. To examine the effect of spending during OCM-defined episodes on individual-level survival, we used Coxregression with patient characteristics and standardized HRR spending per episodeas covariates. To address concerns that may arise from multiple comparisonsacross the 5 tumor types, we used the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure to control thefalse discovery rate.RESULTS: Our analysis showed significant differences in standardized spendingacross HRRs. Compared with spending at the 20th percentile episode, spending atthe 80th percentile ranged from 25% higher ($57,392 vs. $45,995 for MM) to 47%higher ($36,920 vs. $24,127 for RCC), indicating practice style variation across regions. The hazard of dying for patients with NSCLC and MM statisticallysignificantly decreased by 7% (HR = 0.93, P = 0.006) and 13% (HR = 0.87, P =0.019), respectively, for a $10,000 increase in standardized spending (in 2013U.S. dollars). For the 3 other cancers, spending effects were not statisticallysignificant. After using the Benjamini-Hochberg procedure with a 5% falsediscovery rate, the effects of increased spending on improved survival for NSCLC and MM remained statistically significant.CONCLUSIONS: The association we found between spending and survival suggestscaution may be warranted for physicians, pharmacists, other health careprofessionals, and policymakers involved in efforts to reduce across-the-boardspending within OCM-defined episodes for at least 2 of the 5 cancers studied.DISCLOSURES: Funding for this research was provided by Novartis Pharmaceuticalsto Precision Health Economics in support of research design, analysis, andtechnical writing services. The funder provided input on study design andcomments on the draft report. Baumgardner, Shahabi, and Linthicum are employeesof Precision Health Economics (PHE), a health care consultancy to the insuranceand life science industries, including firms that market oncology therapies. Vinewas an employee of PHE at the time of this research. Zacker is an employee of andshareholder in Novartis Pharmaceuticals. Lakdawalla is a consultant to PHE andholds equity in its parent company, Precision Medicine Group.DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2018.24.6.504 PMID: 29799330 