116. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2018 Jun 29. doi: 10.1089/ars.2017.7058. [Epub ahead ofprint]A Review of Hydrogen Sulfide Synthesis, Metabolism, and Measurement: IsModulation of Hydrogen Sulfide a Novel Therapeutic for Cancer?Cao X(1), Ding L(1), Xie ZZ(2), Yang Y(1)(3), Whiteman M(4), Moore PK(1), BianJS(1).Author information: (1)1 Department of Pharmacology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, NationalUniversity of Singapore , Singapore, Singapore .(2)2 Institute of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, University of South China ,Hengyang, China .(3)3 State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of DrugDiscovery for Metabolic Disease, Center for New Drug Safety Evaluation andResearch, China Pharmaceutical University , Nanjing, China .(4)4 University of Exeter Medical School , Exeter, United Kingdom .SIGNIFICANCE: Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has been recognized as the third gaseoustransmitter alongside nitric oxide and carbon monoxide. In the past decade,numerous studies have demonstrated an active role of H2S in the context of cancerbiology. Recent Advances: The three H2S-producing enzymes, namely cystathionineγ-lyase (CSE), cystathionine β-synthase (CBS), and 3-mercaptopyruvatesulfurtransferase (3MST), have been found to be highly expressed in numeroustypes of cancer. Moreover, inhibition of CBS has shown anti-tumor activity,particularly in colon cancer, ovarian cancer, and breast cancer, whereas theconsequence of CSE or 3MST inhibition remains largely unexplored in cancer cells.Intriguingly, H2S donation at high amounts or a long time duration has also been observed to induce cancer cell apoptosis in vitro and in vivo while sparingnoncancerous fibroblast cells. Therefore, a bell-shaped model has been proposedto explain the role of H2S in cancer development. Specifically, endogenous H2S ora relatively low level of exogenous H2S may exhibit a pro-cancer effect, whereas exposure to H2S at a higher amount or for a long period may lead to cancer celldeath. This indicates that inhibition of H2S biosynthesis and H2S supplementationserve as two distinct ways for cancer treatment. This paradoxical role of H2S hasstimulated the enthusiasm for the development of novel CBS inhibitors, H2Sdonors, and H2S-releasing hybrids.CRITICAL ISSUES: A clear relationship between H2S level and cancer progressionremains lacking. The possibility that the altered levels of these byproducts haveinfluenced the cell viability of cancer cells has not been excluded in previousstudies when modulating H2S producing enzymes.FUTURE DIRECTIONS: The consequence of CSE or 3MST inhibition in cancer cells needto be examined in the future. Better portrayal of the crosstalk among thesegaseous transmitters may not only lead to an in-depth understanding of cancerprogression but also shed light on novel strategies for cancer therapy. Antioxid.Redox Signal. 00, 000-000.DOI: 10.1089/ars.2017.7058 PMID: 29790379 