49. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 May;97(21):e10888. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010888.Colonic metastasis from breast carcinoma detection by CESM and PET/CT: A casereport.Falco G(1), Mele S(1), Zizzo M(2)(3), Di Grezia G(4), Cecinato P(5), BesuttiG(3)(6), Coiro S(1), Gatta G(7), Vacondio R(6), Ferrari G(1).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology and Advanced Technologies, Breast Surgery Unit, IRCSSSanta Maria Nuova Hospital, Reggio Emilia.(2)Department of Oncology and Advanced Technologies, Surgical Oncology Unit,IRCCS Santa Maria Nuova Hospital, Reggio Emilia.(3)Clinical and Experimental Medicine PhD Program, University of Modena andReggio Emilia, Modena.(4)Radiology Department, Criscuoli Hospital, Sant' Angelo dei Lombardi, Avellino.(5)Department of Oncology and Advanced Technologies, Gastroenterology-DigestiveEndoscopy Unit, IRCCS Santa Maria Nuova Hospital, Reggio Emilia.(6)Department of Imaging and Medicine of Laboratory, Radiology Unit, IRCCS Santa Maria Nuova Hospital, Reggio Emilia.(7)Radiology Department, "Luigi Vanvitelli" University of Campania, Naples,Italy.INTRODUCTION: Metastatic spread in invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of breastmainly occurs in bones, gynecological organs, peritoneum, retroperitoneum, andgastrointestinal (GI) tract. Metastases to the GI tract may arise many yearsafter initial diagnosis and can affect the tract from the tongue to the anus,stomach being the most commonly involved site. Clinical presentations arepredominantly nonspecific, and rarely asymptomatic. CEA, CA 15-3, and CA 19-9 maybe informative for symptomatic patients who have had a previous history of breastcancer.CASE PRESENTATION: We introduce the case of asymptomatic colonic metastasis from breast carcinoma in a 67-year-old woman followed-up for Luminal A ILC. Diagnosis was performed through positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT)scan and contrast-enhancement spectral mammography (CESM), steering endoscopistto spot the involved intestinal tract and in ruling out further dissemination in the breast parenchyma.CONCLUSION: In colonic metastases, tumor markers might not be totally reliable.In asymptomatic cases, clinical conditions might be underappreciated, missinglocal or distant recurrence. CT and PET/CT scan might be useful in diagnosingsmall volume diseases, and steering endoscopist toward GI metastasis originating from the breast. CESM represents a tolerable and feasible tool that rules outmulticentricity and multifocality of breast localization. Moreover, particularpatients could tolerate it better than magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010888 PMID: 29794798  [Indexed for MEDLINE]