104. J Radiat Res. 2018 Jul 1;59(4):490-500. doi: 10.1093/jrr/rry039.A multi-institutional study of independent calculation verification ininhomogeneous media using a simple and effective method of heterogeneitycorrection integrated with the Clarkson method.Jinno S(1), Tachibana H(2), Moriya S(3), Mizuno N(4), Takahashi R(5), KamimaT(5), Ishibashi S(6), Sato M(1).Author information: (1)Radiological Sciences, Graduate Division of Health Sciences, KomazawaUniversity, Tokyo, Japan.(2)Particle Therapy Division, Research Center for Innovative Oncology, NationalCancer Center Hospital East, Chiba, Japan.(3)Doctoral Program in Biomedical Sciences, Graduate School of ComprehensiveHuman Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Chiba, Japan.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, St Luke's International Hospital, Tokyo,Japan.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, The Cancer Institute Hospital of theJapanese Foundation for Cancer Research, Tokyo, Japan.(6)Department of Radiology, Sasebo City General Hospital, Nagasaki, Japan.In inhomogeneous media, there is often a large systematic difference in the dose between the conventional Clarkson algorithm (C-Clarkson) for independentcalculation verification and the superposition-based algorithms of treatmentplanning systems (TPSs). These treatment site-dependent differences increase the complexity of the radiotherapy planning secondary check. We developed a simpleand effective method of heterogeneity correction integrated with the Clarksonalgorithm (L-Clarkson) to account for the effects of heterogeneity in the lateraldimension, and performed a multi-institutional study to evaluate theeffectiveness of the method. In the method, a 2D image reconstructed fromcomputed tomography (CT) images is divided according to lines extending from the reference point to the edge of the multileaf collimator (MLC) or jaw collimatorfor each pie sector, and the radiological path length (RPL) of each line iscalculated on the 2D image to obtain a tissue maximum ratio and phantom scatterfactor, allowing the dose to be calculated. A total of 261 plans (1237 beams) forconventional breast and lung treatments and lung stereotactic body radiotherapywere collected from four institutions. Disagreements in dose between the on-site TPSs and a verification program using the C-Clarkson and L-Clarkson algorithmswere compared. Systematic differences with the L-Clarkson method were within 1%for all sites, while the C-Clarkson method resulted in systematic differences of 1-5%. The L-Clarkson method showed smaller variations. This heterogeneitycorrection integrated with the Clarkson algorithm would provide a simpleevaluation within the range of -5% to +5% for a radiotherapy plan secondarycheck.DOI: 10.1093/jrr/rry039 PMCID: PMC6054244PMID: 29790997 