120. Psychooncology. 2018 May 26. doi: 10.1002/pon.4778. [Epub ahead of print]Course and predictors of supportive care needs among Mexican breast cancerpatients: A longitudinal study.Pérez-Fortis A(1), Fleer J(1), Schroevers MJ(1), Alanís López P(2), Sánchez Sosa JJ(3), Eulenburg C(4), Ranchor AV(1).Author information: (1)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, HealthPsychology Section, Groningen, The Netherlands.(2)National Medical Center "La Raza", Gynecology and Obstetrics Hospital, MexicanInstitute of Social Security (IMSS), Mexico City, Mexico.(3)Faculty of Psychology, National University of Mexico (UNAM), Mexico City,Mexico.(4)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department ofEpidemiology, Medical Statistics and Decision Making, Groningen, The Netherlands.OBJECTIVE: This study examined the course and predictors of supportive care needsamong Mexican breast cancer patients for different cancer treatment trajectories.METHODS: Data from 172 (66.4% response rate) patients were considered in thisobservational longitudinal study. Participants were measured after diagnosis,neoadjuvant treatment, surgery, adjuvant treatment, and the first post-treatment follow-up visit. Psychological, Health System and Information, Physical and DailyLiving, Patient Care and Support, Sexual, and Additional care needs were measuredwith the Supportive Care Needs Survey (SCNS-SF34). Linear mixed models withmaximum-likelihood estimation were computed.RESULTS: The course of supportive care needs was similar across the differentcancer treatment trajectories. Supportive care needs declined significantly from diagnosis to the first post-treatment follow-up visit. Health System andInformation care needs were the highest needs over time. Depressive symptoms and time since diagnosis were the most consistent predictors of changes in course of supportive care needs of these patients.CONCLUSIONS: Health system and information care needs of Mexican breast cancerpatients need to be addressed with priority because these needs are the leastmet. Furthermore, patients with high depressive symptoms at the start of thedisease trajectory have greater needs for supportive care throughout the disease trajectory.© 2018 The Authors. Psycho-Oncology Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4778 PMID: 29802674 