37. Integr Cancer Ther. 2018 May 1:1534735418777109. doi: 10.1177/1534735418777109.[Epub ahead of print]Effects of Acupuncture on Cancer-Related Cognitive Impairment in ChineseGynecological Cancer Patients: A Pilot Cohort Study.Zeng Y(1)(2), Cheng ASK(1), Song T(2), Sheng X(2), Wang S(2), Xie J(3), ChanCCH(1).Author information: (1)1 The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong, SAR, China.(2)2 The Third Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou,China.(3)3 The Third Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Changsha, China.BACKGROUND: Among women in China, gynecological cancers are the second mostcommon cancers after breast cancer. Cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI)has emerged as a significant problem affecting gynecological cancer survivors.While acupuncture has been used in different aspects of cancer care, the possiblepositive effects of acupuncture on cognitive impairment have received littleattention. This study hypothesized that patients would demonstrate lowerneurocognitive performance and lower structural connectivity compared to healthy controls. This pilot study also hypothesized that acupuncture may potentially be effective in treating CRCI of cancer patients by increasing brain structuralconnectivity and integrity.METHODS: This prospective cohort study consisted of 3 stages: the first stageincluded a group of gynecological cancer patients and a group of age-matchedhealthy controls. This baseline stage used a core set of neurocognitive tests to screen patients with cognitive impairment and used a multimodal approach of brainmagnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to explore the possible neurobiologicalmechanism of cognitive impairment in cancer patients, comparing the results with a group of noncancer controls. The second stage involved assigning CRCI patients into the acupuncture intervention group, while patients without CRCI wereassigned into the cancer control group. The third stage was a postinterventionassessment of neurocognitive function by the same set of neurocognitive tests at baseline. To explore the possible neurobiological basis of acupuncture fortreating CRCI, this study also used a multimodal MRI approach to assess changesin brain structural connectivity, and neurochemical properties in patients atpre- and postacupuncture intervention.RESULTS: This study found that the prevalence of cognitive impairment in Chinese gynecological cancer patients at diagnosis was 26.67%. When investigating themicrostructural white matter in the brain, diffusion tensor imaging data in this study indicated that premorbid cognitive functioning (before clinicalmanifestations become evident) has already existed, as the global and localconnectome properties in the entire patient group were lower than in the healthy control group. Using magnetic resonance spectroscopy, this study indicated there was a significant reduction of relative concentration of NAA ( N-acetylaspartate) in the left hippocampus, comparing these results with healthycontrols. Regarding the effects of acupuncture on reducing CRCI, patients in the acupuncture group reported better neurocognitive test performance after matching for age, menopausal status, cancer stage, and chemotherapy regimen dosage. On amicrostructural level, acupuncture's ability to reduce CRCI may be attributed to a reduction in demyelination and an enhancement of the neuronal viability ofwhite matter in the hippocampus.CONCLUSION: This pilot study indicates that acupuncture is a promisingintervention in treating CRCI in gynecological cancer patients undergoingchemotherapy; however, it requires evaluation in larger randomized controlledstudies to definitively assess its benefit. By using a multimodal imagingapproach, this pilot study also provides novel insights into the neurobiological basis of cognitive impairment on the human brain that has been induced by cancer and/or its treatment.DOI: 10.1177/1534735418777109 PMID: 29806502 