99. Am J Pathol. 2018 Aug;188(8):1882-1894. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2018.04.012. Epub2018 May 24.Epithelial Splicing Regulatory Protein 1 Inhibits the Invasion and Metastasis of Lung Adenocarcinoma.Li L(1), Qi L(1), Qu T(1), Liu C(1), Cao L(1), Huang Q(1), Song W(1), Yang L(1), Qi H(2), Wang Y(1), Gao B(1), Guo Y(1), Sun B(1), Meng B(1), Zhang B(3), CaoW(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute andHospital, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; Key Laboratory of CancerPrevention and Therapy, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; Tianjin's ClinicalResearch Center for Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Ministry of Education,Tianjin, People's Republic of China; Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Preventionand Therapy, Tianjin Medical University, Ministry of Education, Tianjin, People'sRepublic of China; National Human Genetic Resources Sharing Service Platform,Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, Tianjin, People'sRepublic of China.(2)Department of Intensive Care Medicine, Tianjin Medical University GeneralHospital, Tianjin, People's Republic of China.(3)National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin, People's Republic ofChina; Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin, People'sRepublic of China; Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin MedicalUniversity, Ministry of Education, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; KeyLaboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin Medical University,Ministry of Education, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; Department of Breast Cancer, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, Tianjin,People's Republic of China.(4)Department of Pathology, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute andHospital, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; Key Laboratory of CancerPrevention and Therapy, Tianjin, People's Republic of China; Tianjin's ClinicalResearch Center for Cancer, Tianjin Medical University, Ministry of Education,Tianjin, People's Republic of China; Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Preventionand Therapy, Tianjin Medical University, Ministry of Education, Tianjin, People'sRepublic of China; National Human Genetic Resources Sharing Service Platform,Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, Tianjin, People'sRepublic of China. Electronic address: caowenfeng@tjmuch.com.Despite the development of various treatments, metastasis remains a significantproblem with lung adenocarcinoma (ADC). The role and mechanism of epithelialsplicing regulatory protein 1 (ESRP1), an epithelial-specific RNA bindingprotein, on promoting the invasion and metastasis of lung ADC remain to be fully elucidated. Immunohistochemical analysis in 125 human lung ADC tissue samplesdemonstrated that ESRP1 overexpression was inversely related to the presence ofmetastases, tumor size, and clinical stage of lung ADC. Impaired ESRP1 expressionwas also found to stimulate the invasion capacity of lung ADC cells both in vitroand in vivo. Functionally, overexpression of the ZEB1 gene decreased ESRP1expression, and knockdown of the ZEB1 gene caused increased ESRP1 expression. On the basis of a gene array analysis, the expression of ESRP1 was associated withthe regulation of the extracellular matrix. The expression of CD44 and fibroblastgrowth factor receptor, representatives that interact with the extracellularmatrix, was studied. The CD44 subtypes promoted lung ADC cell invasion byregulating matrix metalloproteinase 2 expression. In conclusion, ESRP1 inhibitsthe invasion and metastasis of lung ADC and plays a role in regulating proteinsinvolved in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition.Copyright © 2018 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2018.04.012 PMID: 29803834 