89. Zhonghua Shao Shang Za Zhi. 2018 May 20;34(5):297-302. doi:10.3760/cma.j.issn.1009-2587.2018.05.010.[Establishment and application of three-dimensional model of deep inferiorepigastric artery perforator flap based on computed tomography angiography].[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]Yang L(1), Fang BR, He JY, Wang XC.Author information: (1)Department of Burns and Plastic Surgery, the Second Xiangya Hospital ofCentral South University, Changsha 410011, China.Objective: To explore the establishment and application of three-dimensionalmodel of deep inferior epigastric artery perforator flap based on computedtomography angiography (CTA). Methods: Six patients with breast absence aftermodified radical mastectomy because of breast cancer, 5 patients with congenital absence of vagina, and 6 patients with Paget's disease of penis and scrotum were hospitalized in our unit from January 2012 to April 2017. The size of woundsafter excision of the lesion or that of flaps needed for reconstruction rangedfrom 17 cm×5 cm to 25 cm×9 cm. Abdominal CTA was performed before the surgery,and data of CTA were sent to CT workstation to make three-dimensional model ofdeep inferior epigastric artery perforator flap according to shape and size ofwound. The number, course, and location of deep inferior epigastric artery, vein,and their perforators, and the superficial inferior epigastric vein were observedin the above-mentioned three-dimensional model. The rectangular plane coordinate system with the umbilicus as the origin was established to locate and observecourse and type of the largest deep inferior epigastric artery perforator in leftand right side. Deep inferior epigastric artery perforator flaps were designedand deep inferior epigastric artery perforators etc. were marked according tothree-dimensional models of the flaps before the surgery. The condition observed in three-dimensional model of the flap was compared with the clinical conditionin the surgery of free transverse bilateral deep inferior epigastric arteryperforator flap transplantation for breast reconstruction and longitudinalpedicled thinned unilateral deep inferior epigastric artery perforator flaptransplantation for vagina reconstruction and wound repair of Paget's disease of penis or scrotum. The size of flap ranged from 17 cm×6 cm to 25 cm×10 cm.Results: Seventeen three-dimensional models of deep inferior epigastric arteryperforator flaps were established, including 6 bilateral models and 11 unilateralmodels. Seventy-two reliable deep inferior epigastric artery perforators wereobserved in the three-dimensional model with 3.2±0.7 in the right and 3.1±0.8 in the left. The locations of the largest deep inferior epigastric arteryperforators in the right and left were [(-3.2±1.4) cm, (-1.0±0.7) cm] and[(4.0±1.2) cm, (-1.2±1.1) cm] respectively. Fourteen largest deep inferiorepigastric artery perforators coursed directly and nine coursed tortuously in therectus muscle. Twenty-three superficial inferior epigastric veins were detectedin the three-dimensional models of the flaps. The number, location, and course ofdeep inferior epigastric artery and vein and superficial inferior epigastric veinobserved in the three-dimensional model of deep inferior epigastric arteryperforator flap were in accordance with the condition observed in the surgery.Seventy reliable deep inferior epigastric artery perforators were detected in thesurgery, and the other 2 perforators were unclear due to bleeding. Course ofthese perforators were in accordance with the condition observed in thethree-dimensional model. Deep inferior epigastric artery perforator flaps of all patients survived well with no complication except that 1 patient suffered fromdelayed healing of wound in perineum. During follow-up of 1 to 12 months, allflaps survived with good shape and texture. Conclusions: The three-dimensionalmodel of deep inferior epigastric artery perforator flap based on CTA can beestablished easily and can provide information of number, location, and course ofdeep inferior epigastric artery, vein, and their perforators, and superficialinferior epigastric vein to guide preoperative design and intraoperativedissection of the flap effectively.Publisher: 目的： 探讨基于CT血管造影的腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣三维模型的构建及应用。 方法：2012年1月—2017年4月，笔者单位收治6例乳腺癌改良根治术后乳房缺失患者、5例先天性阴道缺如患者及6例阴茎、阴囊Paget病患者，再造所需皮瓣或病变组织切除后创面面积为17 cm×5 cm～25 cm×9cm。术前行腹部CT血管造影，将所获得的数据传输到CT工作站，根据创面大小、形状构建腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣三维模型，观察腹壁下动静脉及其穿支以及腹壁下浅静脉数量、走行及位置。以脐为原点建立平面直角坐标系，定位左右两侧的最粗腹壁下动脉穿支，观察其走行情况及分型。术前根据腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣三维模型设计皮瓣，并标记腹壁下动脉穿支等。游离移植双侧横行腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣行乳房再造，应用单侧纵行带蒂修薄腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣行阴道再造及阴茎、阴囊Paget病创面修复，并将皮瓣手术中观察到的情况与三维模型进行比较。本组患者皮瓣切取面积为17 cm×6 cm～25 cm×10 cm。 结果：共建立17个腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣三维模型，其中双侧腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣模型6个、单侧腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣模型11个。模型中共观察到可靠腹壁下动脉穿支72支，其中右侧(3.2±0.7)支、左侧(3.1±0.8)支；右侧最粗穿支位置为[(－3.2±1.4)cm，(－1.0±0.7)cm]，左侧最粗穿支位置为[(4.0±1.2)cm，(－1.2±1.1)cm]。最粗腹壁下动脉穿支在腹直肌中走行直接型14支、迂曲型9支。模型中观察到腹壁浅静脉23支。术中观察到腹壁下动静脉及腹壁浅静脉的数量、位置及走行等与三维模型中观察到的情况一致；共探查到可靠腹壁下动脉穿支70支，另有2支由于解剖过程中出血影响而无法辨认，其走行均与三维模型中观察到的情况一致。本组行腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣修复术患者中，除1例患者会阴部部分切口延迟愈合外，其余皮瓣均存活良好，无并发症发生。术后随访1个月～1年，所有皮瓣均存活，外形及质地良好。 结论： 基于CT血管造影的腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣三维模型制作相对简单，该模型提供腹壁下动静脉及其穿支及腹壁浅静脉数量、位置及走行等信息，可有效指导腹壁下动脉穿支皮瓣的术前设计及术中切取。.PMID: 29804428  [Indexed for MEDLINE]