139. J Neurol Sci. 2018 Jul 15;390:239-245. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2018.05.002. Epub 2018 May 3.Paraneoplastic seesaw nystagmus and opsoclonus provides evidence forhyperexcitable reciprocally innervating mesencephalic network.Rizvi MT(1), Cameron L(1), Kilbane C(1), Shaikh AG(2).Author information: (1)Neurological Institute, University Hospitals Health System, Cleveland, OH,United States; Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United States.(2)Neurological Institute, University Hospitals Health System, Cleveland, OH,United States; Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, United States; Daroff-Dell'Osso Ocular MotilityLaboratory, Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center, Cleveland, OH, UnitedStates; Neurology Service, Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center, Cleveland,OH, United States. Electronic address: aasefshaikh@gmail.com.Seesaw nystagmus is characterized by the rhythmic combination of vertical andtorsional dysconjugate oscillations where one eye moves up and inward while theother moves down and outward. Common association of seesaw nystagmus withaccessory optic track lesions lead to traditional hypothesis that it is due tothe mismatch in the vision and vestibular systems. Here we propose a novelmechanism for seesaw nystagmus. We hypothesize that reverberations due toabnormal increases in the excitability of the reciprocally innervating circuit ofexcitatory burst neuron in the midbrain interstitial nucleus of Cajal causes the seesaw nystagmus. Analogous oscillations of the brainstem burst generators may beresponsible for generation of saccadic oscillations or opsoclonus. The keydifference is that the interstitial nucleus of Cajal lacks inhibitory burstneurons, hence the lack of post-inhibitory rebound, and relatively lowerfrequency of the oscillatory cycles causing pendular seesaw nystagmus. Incontrast the brainstem burst generator, with reciprocally innervating excitatory and inhibitory burst neurons, and further inhibitory influence of the omnipauseneurons results in the post-inhibitory rebound at the burst neurons, hence highoscillation frequency. This novel concept is supported by a unique observation ina patient with antineuronal nuclear autoantibody type 2 due to breast cancer who had combined seesaw nystagmus and superimposed saccadic oscillations. The patientneither had cerebellar deficits typically thought to cause paraneoplasticopsoclonus nor visual deficits that are known cause of seesaw nystagmus. Wepropose that hyperexcitability of the burst neurons in the interstitial nucleusof Cajal due to paraneoplastic antibody caused pendular seesaw nystagmus. On the other hand, increased excitability of brainstem burst generators and reducedefficacy of the omnipause neurons caused saccadic oscillations.Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2018.05.002 PMID: 29801897 