31. J Vis Exp. 2018 May 11;(135). doi: 10.3791/57020.Surface Functionalization of Hepatitis E Virus Nanoparticles Using ChemicalConjugation Methods.Chen CC(1), Stark M(1), Baikoghli M(1), Cheng RH(2).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California Davis.(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California Davis; rhch@ucdavis.edu.Virus-like particles (VLPs) have been used as nanocarriers to display foreignepitopes and/or deliver small molecules in the detection and treatment of variousdiseases. This application relies on genetic modification, self-assembly, andcysteine conjugation to fulfill the tumor-targeting application of recombinantVLPs. Compared with genetic modification alone, chemical conjugation of foreignpeptides to VLPs offers a significant advantage because it allows a variety ofentities, such as synthetic peptides or oligosaccharides, to be conjugated to thesurface of VLPs in a modulated and flexible manner without alteration of the VLP assembly. Here, we demonstrate how to use the hepatitis E virus nanoparticle(HEVNP), a modularized theranostic capsule, as a multifunctional deliverycarrier. Functions of HEVNPs include tissue-targeting, imaging, and therapeuticdelivery. Based on the well-established structural research of HEVNP, thestructurally independent and surface-exposed residues were selected for cysteine replacement as conjugation sites for maleimide-linked chemical groups viathiol-selective linkages. One particular cysteine-modified HEVNP (a Cysreplacement of the asparagine at 573 aa (HEVNP-573C)) was conjugated to a breast cancer cell-specific ligand, LXY30 and labeled with near-infrared (NIR)fluorescence dye (Cy5.5), rendering the tumor-targeted HEVNPs as effectivediagnostic capsules (LXY30-HEVNP-Cy5.5). Similar engineering strategies can beemployed with other macromolecular complexes with well-known atomic structures toexplore potential applications in theranostic delivery.DOI: 10.3791/57020 PMID: 29806824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]