172. Biochem Pharmacol. 2018 Aug;154:318-334. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.05.013. Epub2018 May 23.Celecoxib inhibits mitochondrial O2 consumption, promoting ROS dependent death ofmurine and human metastatic cancer cells via the apoptotic signalling pathway.Pritchard R(1), Rodríguez-Enríquez S(2), Pacheco-Velázquez SC(2), Bortnik V(1),Moreno-Sánchez R(2), Ralph S(3).Author information: (1)Menzies Health Institute Queensland, School of Medical Science, GriffithUniversity, Gold Coast, QLD, Australia.(2)Instituto Nacional de Cardiología, Departamento de Bioquímica, Mexico City,Mexico.(3)Menzies Health Institute Queensland, School of Medical Science, GriffithUniversity, Gold Coast, QLD, Australia. Electronic address:s.ralph@griffith.edu.au.Capecitabine induced toxicities such as hand-foot syndrome (HFS) and progression of metastatic cancer are both treatable with concurrent celecoxib as shown in theADAPT (Activating Cancer Stem Cells from Dormancy And Potentiate for Targeting)trial. In the present study, five commonly used NSAIDs, including celecoxib were compared for their pro-oxidative capacities as cytotoxic drugs against human and mouse metastatic melanoma or breast cancer cells in vitroand the source ofcellular ROS production induced by celecoxib was examined in greaterdetail.RESULTS: Celecoxib was unique among the NSAIDs in that it showedparticular potency as a cytotoxic drug against the metastatic cancer cells withIC50 values in the low micromolar range. Celecoxib rapidly enhanced mitochondrialsuperoxide production in situ from cancer cells within minutes, leading to adecrease in cellular respiration and dissipation of the mitochondrialtransmembrane potential (Δψm), followed by extensive ROS-dependent apoptosis ofthe metastatic cancer cells. Celecoxib also showed rapid and direct effects onisolated mitochondria, inducing extensive ROS production in a dose-dependentmanner, whilst it inhibited respiration via Complex I or Complex II when testedin whole cells. Mitochondrial ROS production was necessary for the celecoxibinduced cell death.INNOVATION AND CONCLUSION: These novel findings for direct effects of celecoxibon mitochondria to induce metastatic cancer cell death via a ROS-dependentpro-oxidative mechanism provide supportive evidence for its combinatorial use as a chemosensitizing agent complementing chemotherapies to improve response ratesin patients with advanced metastatic cancers.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.05.013 PMID: 29800556 