8. Biomater Sci. 2018 Jun 25;6(7):1869-1881. doi: 10.1039/c8bm00271a.Synergistic breast tumor cell killing achieved by intracellular co-delivery ofdoxorubicin and disulfiram via core-shell-corona nanoparticles.Tao X (1), Gou J , Zhang Q , Tan X , Ren T , Yao Q , Tian B , Kou L , Zhang L ,Tang X .Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutics, School of Pharmacy, Shenyang PharmaceuticalUniversity, Shenyang 110016, China. tanglab@126.com.Combination therapy with different functional chemotherapeutic agents based onnano-drug delivery systems is an effective strategy for the treatment of breastcancer. However, co-delivery of drug molecules with different physicochemicalproperties still remains a challenge. In this study, an amphiphilic poly(ε-caprolactone)-b-poly (l-glutamic acid)-g-methoxy poly (ethylene glycol)(PCL-b-PGlu-g-mPEG) copolymer was designed and synthesized to develop ananocarrier for the co-delivery of hydrophilic doxorubicin (DOX) and hydrophobic disulfiram (DSF). The amphiphilic copolymer self-assembled into core-shell-coronastructured nanoparticles with the hydrophobic PCL core for DSF loading(hydrophobic interaction) and anionic poly (glutamic acid) shell for DOX loading (electrostatic interaction). DSF and DOX co-loaded nanoparticles (Co-NPs)resulted in high drug loading and precisely controlled DSF/DOX ratio viaformulation optimization. Compared with free drug solutions, DSF and DOXdelivered by the Co-NPs were found to have improved intracellular accumulation.Results of cytotoxicity assays showed that DSF/DOX delivered at the weight ratio of 0.5 and 1 could achieve a synergistic cytotoxic effect on breast cancer celllines (MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231). In vivo imaging confirmed that thecore-shell-corona nanoparticles could efficiently accumulate in tumors. In vivoanti-tumor effect results indicated that Co-NPs showed an improved drugsynergistic effect on antitumor activity compared with the free drug combination.Therefore, it can be concluded that core-shell-corona nanoparticles prepared byPCL-b-PGlu-g-mPEG could be a promising co-delivery system for drug combinationtherapy in the treatment of breast cancer.DOI: 10.1039/c8bm00271a PMID: 29808221 