199. Genet Epidemiol. 2018 Jul;42(5):418-433. doi: 10.1002/gepi.22131. Epub 2018 May29.Transcriptome-wide association studies accounting for colocalization using Egger regression.Barfield R(1), Feng H(2), Gusev A(3)(4), Wu L(5), Zheng W(5), PasaniucB(6)(7)(8), Kraft P(2)(9)(10).Author information: (1)Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,Seattle, Washington.(2)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health,Boston, Massachusetts.(3)Division of Population Sciences, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,Massachusetts.(4)Division of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.(5)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt EpidemiologyCenter, Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center, Vanderbilt University School ofMedicine, Nashville, Tennessee.(6)Department of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, David Geffen School ofMedicine, University of California, Los Angeles, California.(7)Bioinformatics Interdepartmental Program, University of California, LosAngeles, California.(8)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles, California.(9)Program in Genetic Epidemiology and Statistical Genetics, Harvard T.H. ChanSchool of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.(10)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health,Boston, Massachusetts.Integrating genome-wide association (GWAS) and expression quantitative traitlocus (eQTL) data into transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS) based onpredicted expression can boost power to detect novel disease loci or pinpoint thesusceptibility gene at a known disease locus. However, it is often the case that multiple eQTL genes colocalize at disease loci, making the identification of the true susceptibility gene challenging, due to confounding through linkagedisequilibrium (LD). To distinguish between true susceptibility genes (where the genetic effect on phenotype is mediated through expression) and colocalizationdue to LD, we examine an extension of the Mendelian randomization (MR) eggerregression method that allows for LD while only requiring summary associationdata for both GWAS and eQTL. We derive the standard TWAS approach in the context of MR and show in simulations that the standard TWAS does not control type Ierror for causal gene identification when eQTLs have pleiotropic or LD-confoundedeffects on disease. In contrast, LD-aware MR-Egger (LDA MR-Egger) regression can control type I error in this case while attaining similar power as other methods in situations where these provide valid tests. However, when the direct effectsof genetic variants on traits are correlated with the eQTL associations, all ofthe methods we examined including LDA MR-Egger regression can have inflated type I error. We illustrate these methods by integrating gene expression within arecent large-scale breast cancer GWAS to provide guidance on susceptibility gene identification.© 2018 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.DOI: 10.1002/gepi.22131 PMID: 29808603 