107. Chem Biol Interact. 2018 Jun 25;290:64-76. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.05.010. Epub2018 May 24.Copper-redox cycling by coumarin-di(2-picolyl)amine hybrid molecule leads toROS-mediated DNA damage and apoptosis: A mechanism for cancer chemoprevention.Khan S(1), Zafar A(1), Naseem I(2).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Life Sciences, Aligarh MuslimUniversity, Aligarh, 202002, Uttar Pradesh, India.(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Life Sciences, Aligarh MuslimUniversity, Aligarh, 202002, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address:imrananaseem2009@gmail.com.Coumarin is an important bioactive pharmacophore. It is found in plants as asecondary metabolite and exhibits diverse pharmacological properties includinganticancer effects against different malignancies. Therapeutic efficacy ofcoumarin derivatives depends on the pattern of substitution and conjugation with different moieties. Cancer cells contain elevated copper as compared to normalcells that plays a role in angiogenesis. Thus, targeting copper in malignantcells via copper chelators can serve as an attractive targeted anticancerstrategy. Our previous efforts led to the synthesis ofdi(2-picolyl)amine-3(bromoacetyl)coumarin hybrid molecule (ligand-L) endowed withDNA/Cu(II) binding properties, and ROS generation ability in the presence ofcopper ions. In the present study, we aimed to validate copper-dependentcytotoxic action of ligand-L against malignant cells. For this, we used acellular model system of copper (Cu) overloaded lymphocytes (CuOLs) to simulatemalignancy-like condition. In CuOLs, lipid peroxidation/protein carbonylation,ROS generation, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis were investigated in the presenceof ligand-L. Results showed that ligand-L-Cu(II) interaction leads to ROSgeneration, lipid peroxidation/protein carbonylation (oxidative stressparameters), DNA damage, up-regulation of p53 and mitochondrial-mediatedapoptosis in treated lymphocytes. Further, pre-incubation with neocuproine(membrane permeable copper chelator) and ROS scavengers attenuated the DNA damageand apoptosis. These results suggest that cellular copper acts as moleculartarget for ligand-L to propagate redox cycling and generation of ROS viaFenton-like reaction leading to DNA damage and apoptosis. Further, we showed thatligand-L targets elevated copper in breast cancer MCF-7 and colon cancerHCT116 cells leading to a pro-oxidant inhibition of proliferation of cancercells. In conclusion, we propose copper-dependent ROS-mediated mechanism for the cytotoxic action of ligand-L in malignant cells. Thus, targeting elevated copper represents an effective therapeutic strategy for selective cytotoxicity againstmalignant cells.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.05.010 PMID: 29803612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]