34. Indian J Med Res. 2018 Feb;147(2):158-168. doi: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_51_16.C-glycosyl flavone from Urginea indica inhibits proliferation & angiogenesis &induces apoptosis via cyclin-dependent kinase 6 in human breast, hepatic & colon cancer cell lines.Bevara GB(1), Naveen Kumar AD(1), Koteshwaramma KL(1), Badana A(1), Kumari S(1), Malla RR(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, Gandhi Institute of Technology & Management(Deemed to be University), Visakhapatnam, India.Background & objectives: Search for novel compounds beneficial to the treatmentof cancer attracts a great deal of attention. We earlier demonstrated theisolation of5,7-dihydroxy-2-[4'-hydroxy-3'-(methoxymethyl)phenyl]-6-C-β-glucopyranosylflavone, a novel C-glycosyl flavone from Urginea indica bulb. The present studywas undertaken to investigate the effect of this novel compound on human normalepithelial and breast, hepatic and colon cancer cell lines.Methods: : The maximum non-toxic concentration (MNTC) and cytotoxicity ofC-glycosyl flavone were assayed by3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT). Cell cyclewas analyzed by flow cytometry. Docking studies were performed to predictpossible targets. Levels of cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1) and CDK6, Bcl2 andBAX and cytochrome c were quantified by specific ELISA. Mitochondrial membranepotential was determined using JC-1 dye. Apoptosis was quantified by Annexin VELISA method.Results: : Flow cytometry analysis demonstrated G0/G1 arrest. In silico dockingstudies predicted CDK1 and CDK6 as a possible target of C-glycosyl flavone. Invitro study confirmed CDK6 as the main target in C-glycosyl flavone-treatedcancer cell lines. C-glycosyl flavone treatment also induced membrane blebbing,chromatin fragmentation and nucleosome formation. C-glycosyl flavone treatmentcaused marked loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, decrease in Bcl2/BAXratio and activation of caspase-3 and release of caspase-9 and cytochrome c. Inaddition, C-glycosyl flavone inhibited the tumour-induced angiogenesis andreduced the vascular endothelial growth factor levels. Similarly, CDK6 inhibitor significantly inhibited proliferation and angiogenesis and induced apoptosis intested cell lines.Interpretation & conclusions: The results indicate that C-glycosyl flavone mayexert induction of apoptosis, cell cycle arrest and inhibition of angiogenesisvia CDK6. Thus, targeting CDK6 using C-glycosyl flavone may serve as a noveltherapeutic approach for the treatment of breast, hepatic and colon cancers.DOI: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_51_16 PMCID: PMC5991124PMID: 29806604 