20. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2018 May 4;115(18):316-323. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2018.0316.The Screening, Diagnosis, Treatment, and Follow-Up of Breast Cancer.Wöckel A(1), Albert US, Janni W, Scharl A, Kreienberg R, Stüber T.Author information: (1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital of Würzburg;AWMF-Institute for Medical Knowledge Management, c/o Philipps UniversitätMarburg; Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Ulm University; FrauenklinikSt. Marien, Amberg.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women. The German S3guideline of 2012 has now been updated to take account of advances in the earlydetection, diagnostic evaluation, treatment, and follow-up care of this disease.METHODS: The updating process was based on the adaptation of identified sourceguidelines and on reviews of the scientific evidence. A systematic search inmultiple literature databases was carried out, and the full texts of the selectedarticles were evaluated. Suggested recommendations were then proposed byinterdisciplinary working groups and modified and graded in a nominal consensusprocedure.RESULTS: The value of mammographic screening is confirmed in the updatedguideline. As for the diagnostic evaluation of breast cancer, computed tomographyis recommended for staging in patients with a high risk of recurrence, inaddition to conventional methods. As for surgical treatment, the evidencesupporting locoregional surgery for primary breast cancer now affords anopportunity for de-escalation: complete resection yields the best outcome, but a safety margin of several millimeters is not necessary. Axillary dissection is no longer recommended except in certain defined situations. Radiotherapeuticapproaches consist of hypofractionated applications. Adjuvant systemic therapy isindicated for patients in certain high-risk situations defined by a constellationof factors including tumor grade, patient age, node status, Ki-67 antigenexpression, hormone receptor status, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(HER2) status. All patients with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer shouldreceive endocrine therapy. The indication for chemotherapy and/or anti-HER2therapy should be determined in consideration of the expected benefit and sideeffects.CONCLUSION: Consistent implementation of the recommendations in the newly updatedguideline can help lessen morbidity and mortality from breast cancer. The actual extent to which breast cancer guidelines are implemented should be a topic offuture research.DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2018.0316 PMCID: PMC5987060PMID: 29807560 