Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors do not have anyconflicting interests to declare.52. Oncotarget. 2018 May 4;9(34):23396-23412. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25174.eCollection 2018 May 4.Antitumoral and antimetastatic activity of Maitake D-Fraction in triple-negative breast cancer cells.Alonso EN(#)(1), Ferronato MJ(#)(1), Fermento ME(1), Gandini NA(1), Romero AL(2),Guevara JA(1), Facchinetti MM(1), Curino AC(1).Author information: (1)Laboratorio de Biología del Cáncer, Instituto de Investigaciones Bioquímicasde Bahía Blanca (INIBIBB), Universidad Nacional del Sur (UNS)-CONICET,Departamento de Biología, Bioquímica y Farmacia (UNS), Bahía Blanca, Argentina.(2)Departamento de Hematología, IACA Laboratorios, Bahía Blanca, Argentina.(#)Contributed equallyTriple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with poor prognosis, highlocal recurrence rate and high rate of metastasis compared with other breastcancer subtypes. In addition, TNBC lacks a targeted therapy. This scenariohighlights the need for novel compounds with high potential for TNBC treatment.In this regard, natural products are important sources of anticancer drugs.D-Fraction, a proteoglucan extracted from the edible and medicinal mushroomGrifola frondosa (Maitake), is a dietary supplement that has been shown to exert both immunostimulatory and immune-independent antitumoral effects on some cancer types. However, its antitumoral potential in TNBC is unknown. Therefore, weemployed TNBC cells to investigate if D-Fraction is able to attenuate theiraggressive phenotype. We found that D-Fraction decreases MDA-MB-231 cellviability through apoptosis induction and reduces their metastatic potential.D-Fraction increases cell-cell adhesion by increasing E-cadherin protein levelsand β-catenin membrane localization, and increases cell-substrate adhesion.D-Fraction also decreases cell motility by affecting actin cytoskeletonrearrangements, and proteolytic activity of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Furthermore,D-Fraction decreases the invasive capacity of MDA-MB-231 cells. In concordance,D-Fraction retards tumor growth and reduces lung metastases in a xenograft model.Altogether, these results suggest the potential therapeutic role of D-Fraction inaggressive TNBC.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25174 PMCID: PMC5955106PMID: 29805742 