154. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 2018 May 25. doi: 10.1055/a-0604-0157. [Epub ahead ofprint][Work-Related Medical Rehabilitation in Cancer Rehabilitation - Short-TermResults from a Cluster-Randomized Multicenter-Trial].[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]Wienert J(1)(2), Bethge M(2).Author information: (1)Techniker Krankenkasse, Wissenschaftliches Institut der TK für Nutzen undEffizienz im Gesundheitswesen (WINEG), Hamburg.(2)Institut für Sozialmedizin und Epidemiologie, Sektion Rehabilitation undArbeit, Universität zu Lübeck.BACKGROUND: Rehabilitation programs that support return to work becomeincreasingly relevant for cancer survivors. In Germany, such programs wereestablished as work-related medical rehabilitation (WMR). The study investigated whether WMR leads to better results compared to medical rehabilitation (MR). Wereport effects on secondary outcomes when the rehabilitation program wascompleted.METHODS: Clusters of participants were randomly assigned to WMR or MR. Patientsof working age and an elevated risk of not returning to work were included. Thegrade of implementation was assessed by dose delivered and dose received. Studyoutcomes were assessed using scales measuring functioning and symptoms, copingwith illness as well as self-reported work ability. Treatment effects wereestimated using mixed linear models.RESULTS: From 232 planned randomized intervention groups, 165 (71%) wererealized. In total, 476 patients were included. Mean age of participants was 50.7years (SD=7.3). Most frequent primary diagnoses were malignant neoplasms of thebreast. Participants in the WMR program reported significantly better outcomesregarding quality of life (SMD=0.17-0.25), fatigue (SMD=0.18-0.27), coping withillness (SMD=0.17-0.22), and self-reported work-ability (SMD=0.16) compared toparticipants in MR program (all p<0.05).CONCLUSION: The results indicate a positive effect in favor of WMR for cancerpatients with an elevated risk of not returning to work at the end of theirtreatment.Publisher: Rehabilitative Programme zur beruflichen Wiedereingliederung gewinnen für Krebsüberlebende an Relevanz. In Deutschland haben sich solche Programme als medizinisch-beruflich orientierte Rehabilitation (MBOR) etabliert. Die Studieuntersucht, ob die MBOR im Vergleich zur medizinischen Rehabilitation (MR)günstigere Ergebnisse erzielt. Es werden Effekte auf sekundären Zielkriterien zu Reha-Ende berichtet.Teilnehmer wurden in Clustern zufällig der MBOR und der MRzugewiesen. Eingeschlossen wurden Rehabilitanden im erwerbsfähigen Alter undeinem erhöhten sozialmedizinischen Risiko für einen ungünstigenWiedereingliederungsverlauf. Die Umsetzung der Interventionen wurde anhand dererbrachten und wahrgenommenen Behandlungsdosis erfasst. Weitere Zielkriterienwaren Funktions- und Symptomskalen, Fatigue, Krankheitsbewältigung sowie diesubjektive Arbeitsfähigkeit. Behandlungseffekte wurden mit gemischten Modellenberechnet.Von 232 geplanten randomisierten Teilnehmergruppen wurden 165 (71%)realisiert. Es wurden 476 Rehabilitanden eingeschlossen. Das mittlere Alter derTeilnehmer betrug 50,7 Jahre (SD=7,3). 67% waren weiblich. Die häufigstenNeubildungen waren bösartige Neubildungen der Brustdrüse. Die Teilnehmer der MBORberichteten am Ende der Rehabilitation signifikant bessere Werte fürLebensqualität (SMD=0,17–0,25), Fatigue (SMD=0,18–0,27), Krankheitsbewältigung(SMD=0,17–0,22) und subjektive Arbeitsfähigkeit (SMD=0,16) als Teilnehmer der MR (alle p<0,05).Die Ergebnisse zeigen kurzfristig einen positiven Effekt der MBORfür onkologische Rehabilitanden mit einem erhöhten Risiko fürTeilhabeeinschränkungen.© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.DOI: 10.1055/a-0604-0157 PMID: 29801187 