Conflict of interest statement: J.A.S. holds equity interest in MetaStat, Inc.136. Iran J Biotechnol. 2017 Sep 27;15(3):157-165. doi: 10.15171/ijb.1567. eCollection2017.Induction of Apoptosis in Human Breast Cancer MCF-7 Cells by a Semi-SyntheticDerivative of Artemisinin: A Caspase-Related Mechanism.Jamalzadeh L(1), Ghafoori H(1), Aghamaali M(1), Sariri R(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, University of Guilan, Rasht, Iran.Background: Artesunate has recently been used in some pharmacological preparationto induce tumor cell apoptosis. The drug is a semi-synthetic derivative ofartemisinin, traditionally used for its antimalarial. However, up to now, itsanticancer mechanism against different types of tumors is not known. Objectives: The most important purposes of the present research was firstly investigatinginduction of apoptosis on human breast cancer MCF-7 cells by the drug and, in thesecond place, introducing its possible mechanism of action. Materials andMethods: The MTT assay was used to investigate the inhibitory effect ofartesunate on growth of breast cancer MCF-7 cells. For this aim, differentconcentrations of artesunate were used to treat the cells and flow cytometryassay was done followed by annexin V-FITC/PI staining. The activities ofcaspase-3, -8 and -9 were then determined by relative assay kits. Results: Based on the results from MTT assay, it was found that artesunate could significantlyinhibit the growth of MCF-7 cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. On theother hand, the flow cytometry findings showed that the anti-proliferativeactivity of artesunate on MCF-7 cells is due to apoptosis. Besides, caspasecolorimetric assays revealed a significant rise in cellular levels of theinitiators (caspase-8 and -9) and effector (caspase-3) in the cells treated byartesunate. Conclusions: According to our results, it could be concluded thatartesunate could inhibit the growth of MCF-7 breast cancer cells throughinduction of apoptosis by intrinsic and extrinsic caspase-dependent pathways.Therefore, we claim that artesunate could be introduced as a suitable candidatefor the treatment of the breast cancer.DOI: 10.15171/ijb.1567 PMCID: PMC5811062PMID: 29845064 