162. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018 May 30;18(1):387. doi: 10.1186/s12913-018-3200-0.Building a patient-centered and interprofessional training program with patients,students and care professionals: study protocol of a participatory design andevaluation study.Vijn TW(1), Wollersheim H(2), Faber MJ(2), Fluit CRMG(3), Kremer JAM(2).Author information: (1)Scientific Center for Quality of Healthcare, Radboud Institute of HealthSciences, Radboud University Medical Center, 114, PO Box 9101, 6500, HB,Nijmegen, The Netherlands. thomas.vijn@radboudumc.nl.(2)Scientific Center for Quality of Healthcare, Radboud Institute of HealthSciences, Radboud University Medical Center, 114, PO Box 9101, 6500, HB,Nijmegen, The Netherlands.(3)Radboudumc Health Academy, Department for Research in Learning and Education, Radboud University Medical Center, 43, PO Box 9101, 6500, HB, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands.BACKGROUND: A common approach to enhance patient-centered care is training careprofessionals. Additional training of patients has been shown to significantlyimprove patient-centeredness of care. In this participatory design and evaluationstudy, patient education and medical education will be combined by co-creating a patient-centered and interprofessional training program, wherein patients,students and care professionals learn together to improve patient-centeredness ofcare.METHODS: In the design phase, scientific literature regarding interventions andeffects of student-run patient education will be synthesized in a scoping review.In addition, focus group studies will be performed on the preferences ofpatients, students, care professionals and education professionals regarding the structure and content of the training program. Subsequently, an intervention planof the training program will be constructed by combining these building blocks.In the evaluation phase, patients with a chronic disease, that is rheumatoidarthritis, diabetes and hypertension, and patients with an oncologic condition,that is colonic cancer and breast cancer, will learn together with medicalstudents, nursing students and care professionals in training program cycles ofthree months. Process and effect evaluation will be performed using theplan-do-study-act (PDSA) method to evaluate and optimize the training program in care practice and medical education. A modified control design will be used inPDSA-cycles to ensure that students who act as control will also benefit fromparticipating in the program.DISCUSSION: Our participatory design and evaluation study provides an innovative approach in designing and evaluating an intervention by involving participants inall stages of the design and evaluation process. The approach is expected toenhance the effectiveness of the training program by assessing and meetingparticipants' needs and preferences. Moreover, by using fast PDSA cycles and amodified control design in evaluating the training program, the training program is expected to be efficiently and rapidly implemented into and adjusted to carepractice and medical education.DOI: 10.1186/s12913-018-3200-0 PMCID: PMC5975479PMID: 29843804 