115. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2018 May 30. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0902-SA. [Epub ahead of print]Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 Testing in Breast Cancer: AmericanSociety of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists Clinical PracticeGuideline Focused Update.Wolff AC, Hammond MEH, Allison KH, Harvey BE, Mangu PB, Bartlett JMS, Bilous M,Ellis IO, Fitzgibbons P, Hanna W, Jenkins RB, Press MF, Spears PA, Vance GH,Viale G, McShane LM, Dowsett M(1).Author information: (1)Antonio C. Wolff, Johns Hopkins Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center,Baltimore, Maryland; Lisa M. McShane, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda,Maryland; M. Elizabeth Hale Hammond, Intermountain Healthcare and University ofUtah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City; Kimberly H. Allison, Stanford UniversitySchool of Medicine, Stanford, California; Patrick Fitzgibbons, St Jude MedicalCenter, Fullerton, California; Michael F. Press, University of SouthernCalifornia, Los Angeles; Brittany E. Harvey and Pamela B. Mangu, American Societyof Clinical Oncology, Alexandria, Virginia; John M.S. Bartlett, Ontario Institutefor Cancer Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Wedad Hanna, Sunnybrook HealthSciences Centre and Women's College Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; MichaelBilous, Western Sydney University and Australian Clinical Laboratories, Sydney,Australia; Ian O. Ellis, The University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UnitedKingdom; Mitchell Dowsett, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London, UnitedKingdom; Robert B. Jenkins, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota; Patricia A.Spears, Cancer Information and Support Network, Raleigh, North Carolina; Gail H. Vance, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis; and Giuseppe Viale,University of Milan and Istituto Europeo di Oncologia, Milan, Italy.PURPOSE: - To update key recommendations of the American Society of ClinicalOncology (ASCO)/College of American Pathologists (CAP) human epidermal growthfactor receptor 2 (HER2) testing in breast cancer guideline.METHODS: - Based on the signals approach, an Expert Panel reviewed publishedliterature and research survey results on the observed frequency of less commonin situ hybridization (ISH) patterns to update the recommendations.RECOMMENDATIONS: - Two recommendations addressed via correspondence in 2015 areincluded. First, immunohistochemistry (IHC) 2+ is defined as invasive breastcancer with weak to moderate complete membrane staining observed in >10% of tumorcells. Second, if the initial HER2 test result in a core needle biopsy specimenof a primary breast cancer is negative, a new HER2 test may (not "must") beordered on the excision specimen based on specific clinical criteria. The HER2testing algorithm for breast cancer is updated to address the recommended workup for less common clinical scenarios (approximately 5% of cases) observed whenusing a dual-probe ISH assay. These scenarios are described as ISH group 2 (HER2/chromosome enumeration probe 17 [CEP17] ratio ≥2.0; average HER2 copy number<4.0 signals per cell), ISH group 3 ( HER2/CEP17 ratio <2.0; average HER2 copynumber ≥6.0 signals per cell), and ISH group 4 ( HER2/CEP17 ratio <2.0; averageHER2 copy number ≥4.0 and <6.0 signals per cell). The diagnostic approachincludes more rigorous interpretation criteria for ISH and requires concomitantIHC review for dual-probe ISH groups 2 to 4 to arrive at the most accurate HER2status designation (positive or negative) based on combined interpretation of theISH and IHC assays. The Expert Panel recommends that laboratories usingsingle-probe ISH assays include concomitant IHC review as part of theinterpretation of all single-probe ISH assay results.DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2018-0902-SA PMID: 29846104 