164. BMC Cancer. 2018 May 30;18(1):607. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4528-x.Estrogen receptor α dependent regulation of estrogen related receptor β and itsrole in cell cycle in breast cancer.Madhu Krishna B(1), Chaudhary S(1)(2), Mishra DR(3), Naik SK(1), SuklabaidyaS(4), Adhya AK(5), Mishra SK(6).Author information: (1)Cancer Biology Lab, Institute of Life Sciences, Nalco Square,Chandrasekharpur, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, 751023, India.(2)Present address: Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC), Omaha, NE, USA.(3)Department of Gene Function & Regulation, Institute of Life Sciences, Nalcosquare, Chandrasekharpur, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, 751023, India.(4)Tumor Microenvironment and Animal Models Lab, Department of TranslationalResearch and Technology Development, Institute of Life Sciences, Nalco square,Chandrasekharpur, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, 751023, India.(5)Department of Pathology, Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences, ChandakaIndustrial Estate, KIIT Rd, Patia, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.(6)Cancer Biology Lab, Institute of Life Sciences, Nalco Square,Chandrasekharpur, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, 751023, India. sandipkmishra@hotmail.com.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) is highly heterogeneous with ~ 60-70% of estrogen receptor positive BC patient's response to anti-hormone therapy. Estrogenreceptors (ERs) play an important role in breast cancer progression andtreatment. Estrogen related receptors (ERRs) are a group of nuclear receptorswhich belong to orphan nuclear receptors, which have sequence homology with ERsand share target genes. Here, we investigated the possible role andclinicopathological importance of ERRβ in breast cancer.METHODS: Estrogen related receptor β (ERRβ) expression was examined using tissue microarray slides (TMA) of Breast Carcinoma patients with adjacent normal byimmunohistochemistry and in breast cancer cell lines. In order to investigatewhether ERRβ is a direct target of ERα, we investigated the expression of ERRβ inshort hairpin ribonucleic acid knockdown of ERα breast cancer cells by westernblot, qRT-PCR and RT-PCR. We further confirmed the binding of ERα byelectrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), chromatin immunoprecipitation(ChIP), Re-ChIP and luciferase assays. Fluorescence-activated cell sortinganalysis (FACS) was performed to elucidate the role of ERRβ in cell cycleregulation. A Kaplan-Meier Survival analysis of GEO dataset was performed tocorrelate the expression of ERRβ with survival in breast cancer patients.RESULTS: Tissue microarray (TMA) analysis showed that ERRβ is significantlydown-regulated in breast carcinoma tissue samples compared to adjacent normal.ER + ve breast tumors and cell lines showed a significant expression of ERRβcompared to ER-ve tumors and cell lines. Estrogen treatment significantly inducedthe expression of ERRβ and it was ERα dependent. Mechanistic analyses indicatethat ERα directly targets ERRβ through estrogen response element and ERRβ alsomediates cell cycle regulation through p18, p21cip and cyclin D1 in breast cancercells. Our results also showed the up-regulation of ERRβ promoter activity inectopically co-expressed ERα and ERRβ breast cancer cell lines.Fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis (FACS) showed increased G0/G1 phase cell population in ERRβ overexpressed MCF7 cells. Furthermore, ERRβ expressionwas inversely correlated with overall survival in breast cancer. Collectively ourresults suggest cell cycle and tumor suppressor role of ERRβ in breast cancercells which provide a potential avenue to target ERRβ signaling pathway in breastcancer.CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that ERRβ is a negative regulator of cell cycle and a possible tumor suppressor in breast cancer. ERRβ could be therapeutictarget for the treatment of breast cancer.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4528-x PMCID: PMC5975398PMID: 29843638 