82. BMC Genomics. 2018 May 30;19(1):419. doi: 10.1186/s12864-018-4761-3.mRNA-seq whole transcriptome profiling of fresh frozen versus archived fixedtissues.Bossel Ben-Moshe N(1), Gilad S(2), Perry G(3), Benjamin S(2), Balint-Lahat N(4), Pavlovsky A(4), Halperin S(3), Markus B(2), Yosepovich A(4), Barshack I(4)(5),Gal-Yam EN(6), Domany E(1), Kaufman B(6)(5), Dadiani M(7).Author information: (1)Department of Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science,Rehovot, Israel.(2)The Nancy and Stephen Grand Israel National Center for Personalized Medicine, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.(3)Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Cancer Research Center, 5262100, Tel-Hashomer,Israel.(4)Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Institute of Pathology, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.(5)Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.(6)Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Institute of Oncology, Tel-Hashomer, Israel.(7)Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Cancer Research Center, 5262100, Tel-Hashomer,Israel. Maya.dadiani@sheba.helath.gov.il.BACKGROUND: The main bottleneck for genomic studies of tumors is the limitedavailability of fresh frozen (FF) samples collected from patients, coupled withcomprehensive long-term clinical follow-up. This shortage could be alleviated by using existing large archives of routinely obtained and stored Formalin-FixedParaffin-Embedded (FFPE) tissues. However, since these samples are partiallydegraded, their RNA sequencing is technically challenging.RESULTS: In an effort to establish a reliable and practical procedure, wecompared three protocols for RNA sequencing using pairs of FF and FFPE samples,both taken from the same breast tumor. In contrast to previous studies, wecompared the expression profiles obtained from the two matched sample types,using the same protocol for both. Three protocols were tested on low initialamounts of RNA, as little as 100 ng, to represent the possibly limitedavailability of clinical samples. For two of the three protocols tested, poly(A) selection (mRNA-seq) and ribosomal-depletion, the total gene expression profiles of matched FF and FFPE pairs were highly correlated. For both protocols,differential gene expression between two FFPE samples was in agreement with theirmatched FF samples. Notably, although expression levels of FFPE samples bymRNA-seq were mainly represented by the 3'-end of the transcript, they yieldedvery similar results to those obtained by ribosomal-depletion protocol, whichproduces uniform coverage across the transcript. Further, focusing on clinically relevant genes, we showed that the high correlation between expression levelspersists at higher resolutions.CONCLUSIONS: Using the poly(A) protocol for FFPE exhibited, unexpectedly, similarefficiency to the ribosomal-depletion protocol, with the latter requiring muchhigher (2-3 fold) sequencing depth to compensate for the relative low fraction ofreads mapped to the transcriptome. The results indicate that standardpoly(A)-based RNA sequencing of archived FFPE samples is a reliable andcost-effective alternative for measuring mRNA-seq on FF samples. Expressionprofiling of FFPE samples by mRNA-seq can facilitate much needed extensiveretrospective clinical genomic studies.DOI: 10.1186/s12864-018-4761-3 PMCID: PMC5977534PMID: 29848287 