116. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2018 May 30. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2017-0424-OA. [Epub ahead of print]"Ask The Pathologist": An Internet Forum Facilitating Communication BetweenCancer Registrars and Pathologists.Strickland-Marmol LB, Muro-Cacho CA, Washington K, Foulis PR(1).Author information: (1)From the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Service, James A. Haley Veterans'Hospital and the University of South Florida, Tampa (Drs Strickland-Marmol,Muro-Cacho, and Foulis); and the Department of Pathology, Vanderbilt UniversityMedical Center, Nashville, Tennessee (Dr Washington).CONTEXT: - Cancer registrars should work closely with pathologists to ensurecompliance with reporting standards. Many registrars, however, have littlecontact with pathologists, resulting in a lack of "real-time" interaction that isessential for their professional activities and development.OBJECTIVE: - To facilitate registrars' case management, as cancer biology becomesmore complex, we developed the ATP (Ask the Pathologist) forum as a place to ask pathology-related questions about neoplasms, such as terminology, biology,histologic classification, extent of disease, molecular markers, and prognosticfactors.DESIGN: - Questions posted are reviewed by the ATP multidisciplinary oversightcommittee, which consists of 3 pathologists, 4 cancer registrars, 1 internalmedicine physician, the pathology resident member of the College of AmericanPathologists Cancer Committee, and 2 medical technologists. The oversightcommittee may answer the question. Alternatively, the committee may forward thequestion to a content expert pathologist, determine that the question is bettersuited for another reference Web site, or both.RESULTS: - Since September 2013, when the ATP forum became available, users have posted 284 questions, of which 48 (17%) related to gastrointestinal tumors, 43(15%) to breast tumors, and 37 (13%) to general pathology. The average turnaroundtime, from question posted to response, is 11.1 days.CONCLUSIONS: - The ATP forum has had a positive impact in the daily activities ofcancer registrars. Of 440 registrars surveyed, more than 90% considered thatquestions were answered satisfactorily, and one-third reported that ATP answersaffected how they managed a given case.DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2017-0424-OA PMID: 29846103 