133. Mol Med Rep. 2018 Aug;18(2):1733-1739. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9091. Epub 2018 May 29.Epithelial‑mesenchymal transition was identified as a potential marker for breastcancer aggressiveness using reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase chainreaction.Andergassen U(1), Schlenk K(1), Jeschke U(1), Sommer H(1), Kölbl A(1).Author information: (1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, LMU Munich, D‑80337 Munich, Germany.The primary cause of breast cancer‑associated mortality is the formation ofdistant metastasis. During the metastatic process, single tumor cells dissolvefrom the primary tumor site and undergo various changes in cell adhesion andmotility properties. The tumor cells invade the blood stream and travel todifferent sites of the body, where they may initiate outgrowth. These cells arereferred to as circulating tumor cells (CTCs). The process of changing cellularproperties is known as epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). As a differentset of genes is upregulated during EMT, such genes may serve as marker genes for the detection of CTCs based on reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerasechain reaction (RT‑qPCR). Therefore, EMT‑ and breast cancer‑related genes wereselected as RT‑qPCR markers. These genes were tested for performance in a modelsystem of blood samples from healthy donors, to which a number of various breast cancer cell lines were added. The genes with optimal performance weresubsequently used in RT‑qPCR with 35 breast cancer patient samples. The geneswhich showed the highest and most consistent increase in gene expression with theincrease in the number of cancer cell line cells added were CK19, Snail, FoxC2and Twist. Following RT‑qPCR for all patient samples, two subgroups werearranged: One group in which all genes were downregulated and the second groupwith at least one gene indicated an upregulation of gene expression. Comparisons were made between the tumour characteristics from these two groups. Resultssuggested that carcinomas of the first group exhibited a less aggressive tumorbiology compared with those in the second group. The present study indicated anovel RT‑qPCR based test for tumor malignancy.DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9091 PMID: 29845200 