Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have receivedpersonal fees from Daiichi Sankyo during the conduct of study. KF has receivedresearch grants from Daiichi Sankyo. TK and KI are employees of Daiichi Sankyo.68. Anticancer Res. 2018 Jun;38(6):3657-3662. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.12642.Factors Predictive of Sentinel Lymph Node Involvement in Primary Breast Cancer.Malter W(1), Hellmich M(2), Badian M(3), Kirn V(4), Mallmann P(5), Krämer S(6).Author information: (1)Breast Center, University Medical Center of Cologne, Cologne, Germanywolfram.malter@uk-koeln.de.(2)Institute of Medical Statistics, Informatics and Epidemiology, UniversityMedical Center of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.(3)Western German Breast-Center, DOC Holding GmbH, Düsseldorf, Germany.(4)Breast Center, University Medical Center of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.(5)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, University Medical Center ofCologne, Cologne, Germany.(6)Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Helios Hospital Krefeld, Krefeld,Germany.BACKGROUND/AIM: Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) has replaced axillary lymphnode dissection (ALND) for axillary staging in patients with early-stage breastcancer. The need for therapeutic ALND is the subject of ongoing debate especiallyafter the publication of the ACOSOG Z0011 trial. In a retrospective trial withunivariate and multivariate analyses, factors predictive of sentinel lymph nodeinvolvement should be analyzed in order to define tumor characteristics of breastcancer patients, where SLNB should not be spared to receive important indicators for adjuvant treatment decisions (e.g. thoracic wall irradiation after mastectomywith or without reconstruction).PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 2006 and 2010, 1,360 patients with primary breastcancer underwent SLNB with/without ALND with evaluation of tumor localization,multicentricity and multifocality, histological subtype, tumor size, grading,lymphovascular invasion (LVI), and estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor andhuman epidermal growth factor receptor 2 status. These characteristics wereretrospectively analyzed in univariate and multivariate logistic regressionmodels to define significant predictive factors for sentinel lymph nodeinvolvement. The multivariate analysis demonstrated that tumor size and LVI(p<0.001) were independent predictive factors for metastatic sentinel lymph node involvement in patients with early-stage breast cancer.CONCLUSION: Because of the increased risk for metastatic involvement of axillary sentinel nodes in cases with larger breast cancer or diagnosis of LVI, patientswith these breast cancer characteristics should not be spared from SLNB in aclinically node-negative situation in order to avoid false-negative results with a high potential for wrong indication of primary breast reconstruction or wrongnon-indication of necessary post-mastectomy radiation therapy. The prognosticimpact of avoidance of axillary staging with SLNB is analyzed in the ongoingprospective INSEMA trial.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.12642 PMID: 29848724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]