60. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2018 May 31. doi: 10.1038/aps.2018.9. [Epub ahead of print]Delivery of mitochondriotropic doxorubicin derivatives using self-assemblinghyaluronic acid nanocarriers in doxorubicin-resistant breast cancer.Liu HN(1), Guo NN(1), Guo WW(1), Huang-Fu MY(1), Vakili MR(2), Chen JJ(3), XuWH(3), Wei QC(3), Han M(1), Lavasanifar A(2), Gao JQ(1).Author information: (1)Institute of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, ZhejiangUniversity, Hangzhou 310058, China.(2)Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Alberta,Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E1, Canada.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Cancer Institute, Key Laboratory of CancerPrevention and Intervention, the Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University,College of Medicine, Hangzhou 310058, China.Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death for women, andmultidrug resistance (MDR) is the major obstacle faced by chemotherapy for breastcancer. We have previously synthesized a doxorubicin (DOX) derivative byconjugating DOX with triphenylphosphonium (TPP) to achieve mitochondrialdelivery, which induced higher cytotoxicity in drug-resistant breast cancer cellsthan DOX itself. Due to its amphiphilicity, TPP-DOX is difficult to physicallyentrap in nanocarriers. Thus, we linked it to hyaluronic acid (HA) by a novelionic bond utilizing the specific bromide ion of TPP to form supra-molecularself-assembled structures (HA-ionic-TPP-DOX). The product was analyzed uisng1H-NMR, 13C-NMR and mass spectrometry. The HA nanocarriers (HA-ionic-TPP-DOX)were shown to self-assemble into spherical nanoparticles, and sensitive to acidicpH in terms of morphology and drug release. Compared with free DOX,HA-ionic-TPP-DOX produced much greater intracellular DOX accumulation andmitochondrial localization, leading to increased ROS production, slightlydecreased mitochondrial membrane potential, increased cytotoxicity in MCF-7/ADRcells and enhanced tumor targeting in vivo. In xenotransplant zebrafish modelwith the MCF-7/ADR cell line, both TPP-DOX and HA-ionic-TPP-DOX inhibited tumorcell proliferation without inducing significant side effects compared with freeDOX. In addition, we observed a better anti-tumor effect of HA-ionic-TPP-DOX onMCF-7/ADR cells in zebrafish than that of TPP-DOX treatment. Furthermore,HA-ionic-DOX-TPP exhibited favorable biocompatibility and anti-tumor effects inMCF-7/ADR tumor-bearing nude mice in comparison with the effects of TPP-DOX andDOX, suggesting the potential of HA-ionic-TPP-DOX for the targeted delivery andcontrolled release of TPP-DOX, which can lead to the sensitization of resistantbreast tumors.DOI: 10.1038/aps.2018.9 PMID: 29849132 