111. Ther Drug Monit. 2018 Aug;40(4):495-502. doi: 10.1097/FTD.0000000000000532.Preliminary Evidence for Enhanced Thymine Absorption: A Putative New PhenotypeAssociated With Fluoropyrimidine Toxicity in Cancer Patients.Duley JA(1)(2), Ni M(1), Shannon C(2), Norris RL(3), Sheffield L(4), Cowley D(2),Harris M(5), van Kuilenburg ABP(6), Helsby N(7), George R(8), Charles BG(1).Author information: (1)School of Pharmacy, Pharmacy Australia Center of Excellence, The University ofQueensland.(2)Mater Research Institute, The University of Queensland, Woolloongabba,Queensland.(3)Discipline of Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medicine & Public Health,University of Newcastle, Newcastle, New South Wales.(4)MyDNA Life Australia Pty Limited, South Yarra, Victoria, Australia.(5)Monash Health, East Bentleigh, Victoria, Australia.(6)Laboratory Genetic Metabolic Diseases, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, TheNetherlands.(7)Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, School of Medical Sciences,University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.(8)Mater Health Services, Raymond Terrace, South Brisbane, Australia.BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy for colorectal, head and neck, and breast cancercontinues to rely heavily on 5-fluorouracil and its oral prodrug capecitabine.Associations of serious fluoropyrimidine adverse effects have focused oninherited deficiency of the catabolic enzyme, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase.However, abnormal dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase activity accounts for onlyabout one-third of observed toxicity cases. Thus, the cause of most fluorouracil toxicity cases remains unexplained.METHODS: For this small cohort study, thymine (THY) 250 mg was administeredorally to 6 patients who had experienced severe toxicity during treatment with5FU or capecitabine. Plasma and urine were analyzed for THY and its catabolitesdihydrothymine (DHT) and β-ureidoisobutyrate.RESULTS: Of the 6 patients, 2 had decreased THY elimination and raised urinaryTHY recovery consistent with inherited partial dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenasedeficiency, confirmed by DPYD sequencing. Unexpectedly, 3 patients displayedgrossly raised plasma THY concentrations but normal elimination profiles(compared with a normal range for healthy volunteers previously published by the authors). DPYD and DPYS sequencing of these 3 patients did not reveal anysignificant loss-of-activity allelic variants. The authors labeled the phenotype in these 3 patients as "enhanced thymine absorption". Only 1 of the 6 cases oftoxicity had a normal postdose plasma profile for THY and its catabolites.Postdose urine collections from all 6 patients had THY/DHT urinary ratios above4.0, clearly separated from the ratios in healthy subjects that were all below3.0.CONCLUSIONS: This small cohort provided evidence for a hypothesis thatfluorouracil toxicity cases may include a previously undescribed pyrimidineabsorption variant, "enhanced thymine absorption," and elevated THY/DHT ratios inurine may predict fluorouracil toxicity. A prospective study is currently beingconducted.DOI: 10.1097/FTD.0000000000000532 PMID: 29846282 