59. Occup Ther Int. 2018 Apr 17;2018:6798697. doi: 10.1155/2018/6798697. eCollection 2018.Effect of Community-Based Occupational Therapy on Health-Related Quality of Life and Engagement in Meaningful Activities of Women with Breast Cancer.Petruseviciene D(1), Surmaitiene D(2), Baltaduoniene D(1), Lendraitiene E(1).Author information: (1)Department of Rehabilitation, Medical Academy, Lithuanian University of HealthSciences, Kaunas, Lithuania.(2)Kulautuva Hospital of Rehabilitation, Hospital of Lithuanian University ofHealth Sciences Kauno Klinikos, Kaunas, Lithuania.We aimed to evaluate the short-term effects of community-based occupationaltherapy on health-related quality of life and engagement in meaningful activitiesamong women with breast cancer. An open label randomized controlled trial studydesign was applied. The participants were members of various societies of womenwith cancer. In total, 22 women have participated in the study. Participants ofthe experimental group (n = 11) participated in a 6-week community-basedoccupational therapy program and the usual activities of various societies,whereas the control group (n = 11) women participated in the usual activities of the societies only. 1 of the participants withdrew during the course; therefore21 completed the study successfully. Participants of both groups were assessedfor health-related quality of life and the participants of the experimental groupwere assessed for engagement in meaningful activities. The evaluation was carriedout during the nonacute period of the disease-at the beginning of the study andafter 6 weeks. Women of the experimental group demonstrated statisticallysignificantly better scores in the global quality of life, role functions,physical, emotional, cognitive, and social functions, fatigue, insomnia,financial impact, systemic therapy side effects, and breast symptoms scalescompared to the control group participants (p < 0.05) after the 6 weeks, asmeasured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire and its breast cancer moduleQLQ-BR23. Furthermore, women of the experimental group demonstrated significantgreater engagement in meaningful activities when applying community-basedoccupational therapy (p < 0.05), as measured by using the Engagement inMeaningful Activities Survey (EMAS). The evaluation of the associations betweenthe women's engagement in meaningful activities and changes in health-relatedquality of life showed that greater engagement in meaningful activities wasassociated with better emotional functions and a lower level of insomnia (p <0.05). Based on the results of our study, we recommend applying occupationaltherapy in the field of community healthcare in order to maintain or improvebreast cancer patients' health-related quality of life and suggest involvingwomen into meaningful activities during community-based occupational therapyafter clarifying which activities are important to them.DOI: 10.1155/2018/6798697 PMCID: PMC5932445PMID: 29849515 