Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.152. Oncogene. 2018 May 29. doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0324-y. [Epub ahead of print]RANK-c attenuates aggressive properties of ER-negative breast cancer byinhibiting NF-κB activation and EGFR signaling.Sirinian C(1), Papanastasiou AD(2), Schizas M(3), Spella M(4), StathopoulosGT(4), Repanti M(5), Zarkadis IK(6), King TA(3)(7), Kalofonos HP(1).Author information: (1)Clinical and Molecular Oncology Laboratory, Division of Oncology, Departmentof Medicine, University of Patras, Patras, Greece.(2)Clinical and Molecular Oncology Laboratory, Division of Oncology, Departmentof Medicine, University of Patras, Patras, Greece. apapanasta@upnet.gr.(3)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY,USA.(4)Laboratory for Molecular Respiratory Carcinogenesis, Department of Physiology,Faculty of Medicine, University of Patras, Patras, Greece.(5)Department of Pathology, Patras General Hospital, Patras, Greece.(6)Department of Biology, School of Medicine, University of Patras, Patras,Greece.(7)Surgical Oncology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.The RANK/RANKL axis emerges as a key regulator of breast cancer initiation,progression, and metastasis. RANK-c is a RANK receptor isoform produced throughalternative splicing of the TNFRSF11A (RANK) gene and a dominant-negativeregulator of RANK-induced nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation. Here we reportthat RANK-c transcript is expressed in 3.2% of cases in The Cancer Genome Atlasbreast cancer cohort evenly between ER-positive and ER-negative cases.Nevertheless, the ratio of RANK to RANK-c (RANK/RANK-c) is increased inER-negative breast cancer cell lines compared to ER-positive breast cancer celllines. In addition, forced expression of RANK-c in ER-negative breast cancer celllines inhibited stimuli-induced NF-κB activation and attenuated migration,invasion, colony formation, and adhesion of cancer cells. Further, RANK-cexpression in MDA-MB-231 cells inhibited lung metastasis and colonization invivo. The RANK-c-mediated inhibition of cancer cell aggressiveness and nuclearfactor-κB (NF-κB) activation in breast cancer cells seems to rely on a RANK-c/TNFreceptor-associated factor-2 (TRAF2) protein interaction. This was furtherconfirmed by a mutated RANK-c that is unable to interact with TRAF2 and abolishesthe ability to attenuate NF-κB activation, migration, and invasion. Additionalprotein interaction characterization revealed epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR) as a novel interacting partner for RANK-c in breast cancer cells with anegative effect on EGFR phosphorylation and EGF-dependent downstream signalingpathway activation. Our findings further elucidate the complex molecular biology of the RANKL/RANK system in breast cancer and provide preliminary data for RANK-cas a possible marker for disease progression and aggressiveness.DOI: 10.1038/s41388-018-0324-y PMID: 29844572 