108. Toxicol Sci. 2018 May 28. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfy126. [Epub ahead of print]A ternary mixture of common chemicals perturbs benign human breast epithelialcells more than the same chemicals do individually.Dairkee SH(1), Luciani-Torres G(1), Moore DH(1), Jaffee IM(2), Goodson WH 3rd(1).Author information: (1)California Pacific Medical Center Research Institute.(2)Department of Pathology, California Pacific Medical Center, San Francisco, CA 94107, USA.As a continuous source of hormonal stimulation, environmentally ubiquitousestrogenic chemicals, i.e. xenoestrogens (XEs), are a potential risk factor forbreast carcinogenesis. Given their wide distribution in the environment and thefact that bisphenol-A (BPA), methylparaben (MP), and perfluorooctanoic acid(PFOA) are uniformly detected in unselected body fluid samples, it must beassumed that humans are simultaneously exposed to these chemicals almost daily.We studied the effects of a ternary mixture of BPA, MP, and PFOA on benign breastepithelial cells at the range of concentrations observed for single chemicals in human samples. Measurements of exposure impact relevant to the breast were based on endpoints associated with 'hallmarks' of cancer and 'key characteristics' ofcarcinogens. These included modulation of total estrogen receptor (ER)α,phosphorylated ERα (pERα), total ERβ, S-phase induction, and apoptotic evasion.Data from live cell measurements were fit to a log-linear dose-response model.Concentration-dependent reduction of ERβ and apoptosis evasion was observedconcurrently with the induction of ERα, pERα, and S-phase fraction, and anincreased rate of cell proliferation. Beyond additive effects predicted by thesum of individual test XEs, mixture treatment demonstrated synergism for the ERβ and apoptosis suppression phenotypes (p > 0.001). Non-malignant breast cells weremore sensitive than commonly used breast cancer lines to XE treatment in three offive endpoints. All observations were validated with cells isolated from thenormal breast tissue of fourteen individuals. At relatively low concentrations, achemical mixture has striking effects on normal cell function that are missed by evaluation of single chemicals.DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfy126 PMID: 29846718 