182. Neoplasia. 2018 Jul;20(7):687-696. doi: 10.1016/j.neo.2018.05.003. Epub 2018 May 26.Tumor-Specific Mitochondrial DNA Variants Are Rarely Detected in Cell-Free DNA.Weerts MJA(1), Timmermans EC(2), van de Stolpe A(2), Vossen RHAM(3), Anvar SY(4),Foekens JA(5), Sleijfer S(5), Martens JWM(5).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology and Cancer Genomics Netherlands, Erasmus MCCancer Institute, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: m.weerts@erasmusmc.nl.(2)Philips Research Laboratories, High Tech Campus 11, Eindhoven, TheNetherlands.(3)Leiden Genome Technology Center (LGTC), Department of Human Genetics, LeidenUniversity Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.(4)Leiden Genome Technology Center (LGTC), Department of Human Genetics, LeidenUniversity Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands; Department of Human Genetics,Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands; Department of ClinicalPharmacy and Toxicology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, TheNetherlands.(5)Department of Medical Oncology and Cancer Genomics Netherlands, Erasmus MCCancer Institute, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.The use of blood-circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) as a "liquid biopsy" inoncology is being explored for its potential as a cancer biomarker. Mitochondria contain their own circular genomic entity (mitochondrial DNA, mtDNA), up to even thousands of copies per cell. The mutation rate of mtDNA is several orders ofmagnitude higher than that of the nuclear DNA. Tumor-specific variants have been identified in tumors along the entire mtDNA, and their number varies among andwithin tumors. The high mtDNA copy number per cell and the high mtDNA mutationrate make it worthwhile to explore the potential of tumor-specific cf-mtDNAvariants as cancer marker in the blood of cancer patients. We usedsingle-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing to profile the entire mtDNA of 19tissue specimens (primary tumor and/or metastatic sites, and tumor-adjacentnormal tissue) and 9 cfDNA samples, originating from 8 cancer patients (5 breast,3 colon). For each patient, tumor-specific mtDNA variants were detected andtraced in cfDNA by SMRT sequencing and/or digital PCR to explore theirfeasibility as cancer biomarker. As a reference, we measured otherblood-circulating biomarkers for these patients, including driver mutations innuclear-encoded cfDNA and cancer-antigen levels or circulating tumor cells. Four of the 24 (17%) tumor-specific mtDNA variants were detected in cfDNA, however at much lower allele frequencies compared to mutations in nuclear-encoded drivergenes in the same samples. Also, extensive heterogeneity was observed among theheteroplasmic mtDNA variants present in an individual. We conclude that there is limited value in tracing tumor-specific mtDNA variants in blood-circulating cfDNAwith the current methods available.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.neo.2018.05.003 PMCID: PMC6030393PMID: 29842994 