67. BMJ Open. 2018 May 30;8(5):e018910. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018910.Venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer: design and rationale of amulticentre, prospective registry (Cancer-VTE Registry).Ohashi Y(1), Ikeda M(2), Kunitoh H(3), Sasako M(4), Okusaka T(5), Mukai H(6),Fujiwara K(7), Nakamura M(8), Kimura T(9), Ibusuki K(9), Sakon M(10).Author information: (1)Department of Integrated Science and Engineering for Sustainable Society, ChuoUniversity, Tokyo, Japan.(2)Division of Lower Gastrointestinal Surgery, Hyogo College of Medicine,Nishinomiya, Japan.(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, Tokyo,Japan.(4)Department of Multidisciplinary Surgical Oncology, Hyogo College of Medicine, Nishinomiya, Japan.(5)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, National Cancer CenterHospital, Tokyo, Japan.(6)Division of Breast and Medical Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital East,Kashiwa, Japan.(7)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Saitama Medical University InternationalMedical Center, Hidaka, Japan.(8)Department of Cardiology and Nephrology, Mie University Graduate School ofMedicine, Tsu, Japan.(9)Department of Medical Science, Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd, Tokyo, Japan.(10)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Osaka International Cancer Institute,Osaka, Japan.INTRODUCTION: Patients with cancer are at higher risk of venous thromboembolism(VTE) than the general population as the malignancy itself and treatmentmodalities, including medication and surgery, contribute to the risk ofdeveloping VTE. Furthermore, patients with cancer developing VTE have a worseprognosis than those without cancer. There are no multicentre prospective data onthe occurrence and treatment of VTE in patients with cancer in Japan, and data onthe outcomes, complications and incidence of VTE in these patients have not been reported. In addition, Japanese patients with cancer are traditionally treatedwith unfractionated heparin or warfarin; however, the use of direct oralanticoagulants, which became available in 2014, has not been sufficientlyexamined in this patient group. Therefore, this multicentre, prospective registryhas been designed to capture VTE data from Japanese patients presenting with six cancer types.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This registry will enrol 10 000 patients with colorectal,lung, stomach, breast, gynaecological (including endometrial, cervical, ovarian, fallopian tube and peritoneal) or pancreatic cancer between March 2017 and March 2019 and follow them for 1 year. We plan to collect data on the incidences ofsymptomatic VTE, bleeding events, stroke, systemic embolic events, incidental VTErequiring treatment in patients, overall survival and symptomatic VTE event-free survival.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: All patients will provide written informed consent.Data will remain anonymous and will be collected using an online electronic data capture system. Study protocol, amendments and informed consent forms will beapproved by the institutional review board/independent ethics committee at eachsite prior to study commencement. Results will be disseminated at nationalmeetings and published in peer-reviewed journals.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: UMIN000024942.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-018910 PMCID: PMC5988100PMID: 29848769 