34. Bioinformatics. 2018 May 29. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bty429. [Epub ahead ofprint]A graph-embedded deep feedforward network for disease outcome classification and feature selection using gene expression data.Kong Y(1), Yu T(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.Motivation: Gene expression data represents a unique challenge in predictivemodel building, because of the small number of samples (n) compared to the hugeamount of features (p). This "n = p" property has hampered application of deeplearning techniques for disease outcome classification. Sparse learning byincorporating external gene network information could be a potential solution to this issue. Still, the problem is very challenging because (1) there are tens of thousands of features and only hundreds of training samples, (2) the scale-freestructure of the gene network is unfriendly to the setup of convolutional neural networks.Results: To address these issues and build a robust classification model, wepropose the Graph-Embedded Deep Feedforward Networks (GEDFN), to integrateexternal relational information of features into the deep neural networkarchitecture. The method is able to achieve sparse connection between networklayers to prevent overfitting. To validate the method's capability, we conducted both simulation experiments and real data analysis using a Breast InvasiveCarcinoma (BRCA) RNA-seq dataset and a Kidney Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma (KIRC)RNA-seq dataset from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). The resulting highclassification accuracy and easily interpretable feature selection resultssuggest the method is a useful addition to the current graph-guidedclassification models and feature selection procedures.Availability: The method is available at https://github.com/yunchuankong/GEDFN.Contact: tianwei.yu@emory.edu.Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformaticsonline.DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bty429 PMID: 29850911 