121. Breast Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 1;20(1):43. doi: 10.1186/s13058-018-0972-4.Proteolytic single hinge cleavage of pertuzumab impairs its Fc effector function and antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo.Hsiao HC(1), Fan X(1), Jordan RE(1), Zhang N(2), An Z(3).Author information: (1)Texas Therapeutics Institute, Brown Foundation Institute of MolecularMedicine, the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, 1825 PresslerSt., Suite 532, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.(2)Texas Therapeutics Institute, Brown Foundation Institute of MolecularMedicine, the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, 1825 PresslerSt., Suite 532, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. Ningyan.zhang@uth.tmc.edu.(3)Texas Therapeutics Institute, Brown Foundation Institute of MolecularMedicine, the University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, 1825 PresslerSt., Suite 532, Houston, TX, 77030, USA. zhiqiang.an@uth.tmc.edu.BACKGROUND: Proteolytic impairment of the Fc effector functions of therapeuticmonoclonal antibodies (mAbs) can compromise their antitumor efficacy in the tumormicroenvironment and may represent an unappreciated mechanism of host immuneevasion. Pertuzumab is a human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(HER2)-targeting antibody and has been widely used in the clinic in combinationwith trastuzumab for treatment of HER2-overexpressing breast cancer. Pertuzumabsusceptibility to proteolytic hinge cleavage and its impact on the drug'sefficacy has not been previously studied.METHODS: Pertuzumab was incubated with high and low HER2-expressing cancer cells and proteolytic cleavage in the lower hinge region was detected by westernblotting. The single hinge cleaved pertuzumab (scIgG-P) was purified andevaluated for its ability to mediate antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity(ADCC) in vitro and anti-tumor efficacy in vivo. To assess the cleavage oftrastuzumab (IgG-T) and pertuzumab (IgG-P) when simultaneously bound to the same cancer cell surface, F(ab')2 fragments of IgG-T or IgG-P were combined with theintact IgG-P and IgG-T, respectively, to detect scIgG generation by westernblotting.RESULTS: Pertuzumab hinge cleavage occurred when the mAb was incubated with high HER2-expressing cancer cells. The hinge cleavage of pertuzumab caused asubstantial loss of ADCC in vitro and reduced antitumor efficacy in vivo. Thereduced ADCC function of scIgG-P was restored by an anti-hinge mAb specific for acleavage site neoepitope. In addition, we constructed a protease-resistantversion of the anti-hinge mAb that restored ADCC and the cell-killing functionsof pertuzumab when cancer cells exressed a potent IgG hinge-cleaving protease. Wealso observed increased hinge cleavage of pertuzumab when combined withtrastuzumab.CONCLUSION: The reduced Fc effector function of single hinge-cleaved pertuzumabcan be restored by an anti-hinge mAb. The restoration effect indicated thatimmune function could be readily augmented when the damaged primary antibodieswere bound to cancer cell surfaces. The anti-hinge mAb also restored Fc effector function to the mixture of proteolytically disabled trastuzumab and pertuzumab,suggesting a general therapeutic strategy to restore the immune effector functionto protease-inactivated anticancer antibodies in the tumor microenvironment. The findings point to a novel tactic for developing breast cancer immunotherapy.DOI: 10.1186/s13058-018-0972-4 PMCID: PMC5984793PMID: 29859099 