Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.133. Mol Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 1. doi: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-18-0012. [Epub ahead ofprint]Molecular Signature and Mechanisms of Hepatitis D Virus-Associated HepatocellularCarcinoma.Diaz G(1), Engle RE(2), Tice A(2), Melis M(2), Montenegro S(2), Rodriguez-CanalesJ(3), Hanson J(3), Emmert-Buck MR(3), Bock KW(4), Moore IN(4), Zamboni F(5),Govindarajan S(6), Kleiner DE(7), Farci P(8).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.(2)Hepatic Pathogenesis Section, Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, NationalInstitute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland.(3)Laser Capture Microdissection Core Facility, Laboratory of Pathology, NationalCancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland.(4)Infectious Disease Pathogenesis Section, Comparative Medicine Branch, NationalInstitutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland.(5)Liver Transplantation Center, Brotzu Hospital, Cagliari, Italy.(6)Department of Pathology, Rancho Los Amigos Hospital, University of SouthernCalifornia, Downey, California.(7)Laboratory of Pathology, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland.(8)Hepatic Pathogenesis Section, Laboratory of Infectious Diseases, NationalInstitute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland.pfarci@niaid.nih.gov.There is limited data on the molecular mechanisms whereby hepatitis D virus (HDV)promotes liver cancer. Therefore, serum and liver specimens obtained at the time of liver transplantation from well-characterized patients with HDV-HCC (n = 5)and with non-HCC HDV cirrhosis (n = 7) were studied using an integrated genomicapproach. Transcriptomic profiling was performed using lasercapture-microdissected (LCM) malignant and nonmalignant hepatocytes, tumorous andnontumorous liver tissue from patients with HDV-HCC, and liver tissue frompatients with non-HCC HDV cirrhosis. HDV-HCC was also compared with hepatitis Bvirus (HBV) HBV-HCC alone, and hepatitis C virus (HCV) HCV-HCC. HDV malignanthepatocytes were characterized by an enrichment of upregulated transcriptsassociated with pathways involved in cell-cycle/DNA replication, damage, andrepair (Sonic Hedgehog, GADD45, DNA-damage-induced 14-3-3σ, cyclins andcell-cycle regulation, cell cycle: G2-M DNA-damage checkpoint regulation, andhereditary breast cancer). Moreover, a large network of genes identifiedfunctionally relate to DNA repair, cell cycle, mitotic apparatus, and celldivision, including 4 cancer testis antigen genes, attesting to the critical roleof genetic instability in this tumor. Besides being overexpressed, these geneswere also strongly coregulated. Gene coregulation was high not only when comparedwith nonmalignant hepatocytes, but also to malignant hepatocytes from HBV-HCCalone or HCV-HCC. Activation and coregulation of genes critically associated withDNA replication, damage, and repair point to genetic instability as an important mechanism of HDV hepatocarcinogenesis. This specific HDV-HCC trait emerged alsofrom the comparison of the molecular pathways identified for each hepatitisvirus-associated HCC. Despite the dependence of HDV on HBV, these findingssuggest that HDV and HBV promote carcinogenesis by distinct molecularmechanisms.Implications: This study identifies a molecular signature ofHDV-associated hepatocellular carcinoma and suggests the potential for newbiomarkers for early diagnostics. Mol Cancer Res; 1-14. ©2018 AACR.©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-18-0012 PMID: 29858376 