143. Breast. 2018 Aug;40:156-164. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.05.009. Epub 2018 May 22.Development and pilot testing of a Decision Aid (DA) for women with early-stagebreast cancer considering contralateral prophylactic mastectomy.Ager B(1), Jansen J(2), Porter D(3), Phillips KA(4), Glassey R(5); CPM DAAdvisory Group, Butow P(6).Collaborators: Rankin N, Musiello T, Boyle F, Zdenkowski N, Skandarajah A,Saunders C, Sundaresan P, De Abreu Lourenco R.Author information: (1)School of Psychology, The University of Sydney, Australia.(2)Sydney Medical School, The University of Sydney, Australia; Psycho-OncologyCo-Operative Research Group (PoCoG), The University of Sydney, Australia.(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Auckland Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand;Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, New Zealand.(4)Division of Cancer Medicine, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Victoria,Australia; Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, The University ofMelbourne, Victoria, Australia.(5)Medical School, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.(6)Psycho-Oncology Co-Operative Research Group (PoCoG), The University of Sydney,Australia; Centre for Medical Psychology and Evidence Based Decision-Making, The University of Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: phyllis.butow@sydney.edu.au.OBJECTIVE: Describe the development, acceptability and feasibility of a Decision Aid (DA) for women with early-stage breast cancer (BC) at average contralateralbreast cancer (CBC) risk considering contralateral prophylactic mastectomy (CPM).METHODS: The DA was developed using the International Patient Decision AidStandards (IPDAS) and the Ottawa Decision Support Framework. It providesevidence-based information about CPM in a booklet format combining text, graphsand images of surgical options. Twenty-three women with a history of early-stage breast cancer were interviewed in person or over the phone using a 'think aloudapproach'. Framework analysis was used to code and analyse data.RESULTS: Twenty-three women participated in the study. Mean age of participantswas 58.6 years and time since diagnosis ranged from 14 months to 21 years. Fivewomen had CPM and eighteen had not. Women strongly endorsed the DA. Many feltvalidated by a section on appearance and found information on average risk ofrecurrence and metastases helpful, however, noted the importance of discussingpersonal risk with their surgeon. Many requested more information on surgerydetails (time taken, recovery) and costs of the different options.CONCLUSION: The DA was acceptable to women, including the format, content andproposed implementation strategies. Practical and financial issues are important to women in considering treatment options.PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Women appreciate information about CPM at diagnosis andemphasised the importance of discussing potential downsides of the procedure inaddition to benefits. The DA was considered acceptable to facilitate suchdiscussions.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.05.009 PMID: 29857282 