30. Biochemistry. 2018 Jul 3;57(26):3830-3848. doi: 10.1021/acs.biochem.8b00343. Epub2018 Jun 13.Comparative Analysis of the Conformation, Aggregation, Interaction, and FibrilMorphologies of Human α-, β-, and γ-Synuclein Proteins.Jain MK(1), Singh P(1), Roy S(1), Bhat R(1).Author information: (1)School of Biotechnology , Jawaharlal Nehru University , New Delhi 110 067 ,India.The human synuclein (syn) family is comprised of α-, β-, and γ-syn proteins.α-syn has the highest propensity for aggregation, and its aggregated formsaccumulate in Lewy bodies (LB) and Lewy neurites, which are involved inParkinson's disease (PD). β- and γ-syn are absent in LB, and their exact role is still enigmatic. β-syn does not form aggregates under physiological conditions(pH 7.4), while γ-syn is associated with neural and non-neural diseases likebreast cancer. Because of their similar regional distribution in the brain,natively unfolded structure, and high degree of sequence homology, studying theeffect of the environment on their conformation, interactions, fibrillation, and fibril morphologies has become important. Our studies show that hightemperatures, low pH values, and high concentrations increase the rate offibrillation of α- and γ-syn, while β-syn forms fibrils only at low pH. Fibrilmorphologies are strongly dependent on the immediate environment of the proteins.The high molar ratio of β-syn inhibits the fibrillation in α- and γ-syn. However,preformed seed fibrils of β- and γ-syn do not affect fibrillation of α-syn.Surface plasmon resonance data show that interactions between α- and β-syn, β-and γ-syn, and α- and γ-syn are weak to moderate in nature and can bephysiologically significant in counteracting several adverse conditions in thecells that trigger their aggregation. These studies could be helpful inunderstanding collective human synuclein behavior in various protein environmentsand in the modulation of the homeostasis between β-syn and healthy versus corruptα- and γ-syn that can potentially affect PD pathology.DOI: 10.1021/acs.biochem.8b00343 PMID: 29851342 