3. Eur Urol. 2018 May 28. pii: S0302-2838(18)30362-2. doi:10.1016/j.eururo.2018.05.014. [Epub ahead of print]The Diverse Genomic Landscape of Clinically Low-risk Prostate Cancer.Cooperberg MR(1), Erho N(2), Chan JM(3), Feng FY(4), Fishbane N(2), Zhao SG(5),Simko JP(6), Cowan JE(7), Lehrer J(2), Alshalalfa M(2), Kolisnik T(2),Chelliserry J(2), Margrave J(2), Aranes M(2), Plessis MD(2), Buerki C(2),Tenggara I(7), Davicioni E(2), Carroll PR(7).Author information: (1)Department of Urology, UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University ofCalifornia, San Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address:matthew.cooperberg@ucsf.edu.(2)GenomeDx Biosciences, San Diego, CA, USA.(3)Department of Urology, UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University ofCalifornia, San Francisco, CA, USA.(4)Department of Urology, UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Radiation Oncology, UCSF Helen DillerFamily Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, CA, USA.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(6)Department of Urology, UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Pathology, UCSF Helen Diller FamilyComprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, CA, USA.(7)Department of Urology, UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,San Francisco, CA, USA.BACKGROUND: Among men with clinically low-risk prostate cancer, we havepreviously documented heterogeneity in terms of clinical characteristics andgenomic risk scores.OBJECTIVE: To further study the underlying tumor biology of this patientpopulation, by interrogating broader patterns of gene expression among men withclinically low-risk tumors.DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Prostate biopsies from 427 patients consideredpotentially suitable for active surveillance underwent central pathology reviewand genome-wide expression profiling. These cases were compared with 1290higher-risk biopsy cases with diverse clinical features from a prospectivegenomic registry.OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Average genomic risk (AGR) wasdetermined from 18 published prognostic signatures, and MSigDB hallmark gene setswere analyzed using bootstrapped clustering methods. These sets were examined in relation to clinical variables and pathological and biochemical outcomes usingmultivariable regression analysis.RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 408 (96%) biopsies passed RNA qualitycontrol. Based on AGR quartiles defined by the high-risk multicenter cases, theUniversity of California, San Francisco (UCSF) low-risk patients were distributedacross the quartiles as 219 (54%), 107 (26%), 61 (15%), and 21 (5%). Unsupervisedclustering analysis of the hallmark gene set scores revealed three clusters,which were enriched for the previously described PAM50 luminal A, luminal B, and basal subtypes. AGR, but not the clusters, was associated with both pathological (odds ratio 1.34, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.14-1.58) and biochemicaloutcomes (hazard ratio 1.53, 95% CI 1.19-1.93). These results may underestimatewithin-prostate genomic heterogeneity.CONCLUSIONS: Prostate cancers that are homogeneously low risk by traditionalcharacteristics demonstrate substantial diversity at the level of genomicexpression. Molecular substratification of low-risk prostate cancer will yield a better understanding of its divergent biology and, in the future may helppersonalize treatment recommendations.PATIENT SUMMARY: We studied the genomic characteristics of tumors from mendiagnosed with low-risk prostate cancer. We found three main subtypes of prostatecancer with divergent tumor biology, similar to what has previously been found inwomen with breast cancer. In addition, we found that genomic risk scores wereassociated with worse pathology findings and prostate-specific antigen recurrenceafter surgery. These results suggest even greater genomic diversity amonglow-risk patients than has previously been documented with more limitedsignatures.Copyright © 2018 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2018.05.014 PMID: 29853306 