152. J Cell Physiol. 2018 Jun 1. doi: 10.1002/jcp.26823. [Epub ahead of print]PTBP1 promotes the growth of breast cancer cells through the PTEN/Akt pathway andautophagy.Wang X(1), Li Y(2), Fan Y(3), Yu X(1), Mao X(1), Jin F(1).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of China MedicalUniversity, Shenyang City, Liaoning, China.(2)Department of Cell Biology, Key Laboratory of Cell Biology, Ministry of PublicHealth, and Key Laboratory of Medical Cell Biology, Ministry of Education, China Medical University, Shenyang, China.(3)Department of Pediatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital of China MedicalUniversity, Shenyang City, Liaoning, China.Invasion and migration is the hallmark of malignant tumors as well as the majorcause for breast cancer death. The polypyrimidine tract binding, PTB, proteinserves as an important model for understanding how RNA binding proteins affectproliferation and invasion and how changes in the expression of these proteinscan control complex programs of tumorigenesis. We have investigated some roles ofpolypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) in human breast cancer. We foundthat PTBP1 was upregulated in breast cancer tissues compared with normal tissues and the same result was confirmed in breast cancer cell lines. Knockdown of PTBP1substantially inhibited tumor cell growth, migration, and invasion. These resultssuggest that PTBP1 is associated with breast tumorigenesis and appears to berequired for tumor cell growth and maintenance of metastasis. We further analyzedthe relationship between PTBP1 and clinicopathological parameters and found that PTBP1 was correlated with her-2 expression, lymph node metastasis, andpathological stage. This will be a novel target for her-2(+ ) breast cancer.PTBP1 exerts these effects, in part, by regulating the phosphatase and tensinhomolog-phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase/protein kinase B(PTEN-PI3K/Akt) pathway and autophagy, and consequently alters cell growth andcontributes to the invasion and metastasis.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Cellular Physiology Published by WileyPeriodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcp.26823 PMID: 29856478 