21. Exp Mol Pathol. 2018 Aug;105(1):41-49. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2018.05.011. Epub2018 May 28.Loss of c-KIT expression in breast cancer correlates with malignanttransformation of breast epithelium and is mediated by KIT gene promoter DNAhypermethylation.Janostiak R(1), Vyas M(2), Cicek AF(2), Wajapeyee N(2), Harigopal M(2).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT06510, USA. Electronic address: radoslav.janostiak@yale.edu.(2)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT06510, USA.KIT Proto-Oncogene Receptor Tyrosine Kinase (KIT) is a transmembrane receptortyrosine kinase which plays an important role in regulation of cellproliferation, survival and migration. Interestingly, the role of c-KIT inmalignant transformation seems to be highly tissue-specific and it can act eitheras an oncogene or tumor suppressor gene. Here we analyzed the expression of c-KITin normal breast tissues and tissues from different stages encompassing majorsteps of breast tumor development. Our study showed, that the c-KIT proteinexpression is gradually lost during the process of breast tissue transformation. The analysis of previously published datasets revealed that c-KIT expression inbreast malignancies was downregulated at mRNA level. Because sequencing studiesdid not identify any recurrent mutations or copy number alterations, we proposed a potential epigenetic mechanism for the downregulation of c-KIT expression.In-silico analysis of the KIT promoter revealed the presence of CpG islands,therefore we performed bisulfite sequencing of normal breast epithelial tissuesas well as breast tumor samples. We found, that KIT promoter is hypermethylatedin breast tumors compared to normal breast tissues. Furthermore, treatment ofbreast cancer cell lines, that lack the expression of c-KIT, withmethyltransferase inhibitor 5-Azacytidine (5Aza-2dC) resulted in increasedexpression of c-KIT mRNA. Collectively, our studies demonstrate that c-KITexpression is epigenetically downregulated during breast epitheliumtransformation and cancer development via KIT promoter hypermethylation.Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2018.05.011 PMID: 29852185 