174. Oncoscience. 2018 Apr 29;5(3-4):99-108. doi: 10.18632/oncoscience.412.eCollection 2018 Mar.Panobinostat suppresses the mesenchymal phenotype in a novel claudin-low triplenegative patient-derived breast cancer model.Matossian MD(1), Burks HE(1), Elliott S(1), Hoang VT(1), Bowles AC(2), SabolRA(2), Bunnell BA(2)(3), Martin EC(4), Burow ME(1)(3), Collins-Burow BM(1)(5).Author information: (1)Tulane University School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Section ofHematology & Medical Oncology, New Orleans LA, USA.(2)Tulane Center for Stem Cell Research and Regenerative Medicine, New OrleansLA, USA.(3)Tulane University School of Medicine, Department of Pharmacology, New Orleans LA, USA.(4)Louisiana State University, Department of Agricultural Engineering, BatonRouge LA, USA.(5)Tulane University School of Medicine, Tulane Cancer Center, New Orleans LA,USA.Claudin-low triple negative breast cancer (CL-TNBC) is a clinically aggressivemolecular TNBC subtype characterized by a propensity to metastasize, recur andacquire chemoresistance. CL-TNBC has a diverse intra- and extracellularcomposition and microenvironment, and currently there are no clinically approved targeted therapies. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) have been investigatedas therapeutic agents targeting invasive TNBC phenotypes. However, furtherstudies are required to evaluate HDAC inhibition in CL-TNBC. Here, we utilize anovel CL- TNBC patient-derived xenograft model to study the various and diversetherapeutic potential targets within CL-TNBC tumors. To evaluate effects of thepan-HDACi panobinostat on metastasis and the mesenchymal phenotype of CL-TNBC, weutilize immunohistochemistry staining and qRT-PCR in in vitro, ex vivo and invivo studies. Further, we evaluate pan-HDAC inhibition on stem-likesubpopulations using 3D mammosphere culture techniques and quantification.Finally, we show that pan- HDACi suppresses collagen expression in CL-TNBC. Inthis study, we provide evidence that pan-HDAC inhibition has effects on variouscomponents of the CL-TNBC subtype, and we demonstrate the potential of our novel CL-TNBC PDX model in therapeutic discovery research.DOI: 10.18632/oncoscience.412 PMCID: PMC5978446PMID: 29854878 