127. Cancer Metastasis Rev. 2018 Jun 1. doi: 10.1007/s10555-018-9734-0. [Epub ahead ofprint]Roles of prostaglandins in tumor-associated lymphangiogenesis with specialreference to breast cancer.Lala PK(1)(2), Nandi P(3), Majumder M(4).Author information: (1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Schulich School of Medicine andDentistry, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, N6A5C1, Canada.pklala@uwo.ca.(2)Department of Oncology, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, N6A5C1, Canada. pklala@uwo.ca.(3)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Schulich School of Medicine andDentistry, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, N6A5C1, Canada.(4)Department of Biology, Brandon University, Brandon, Manitoba, R7A 6A9, Canada.Lymphangiogenesis (formation of new lymphatic vessels), unlike angiogenesis, has been a lesser-focused field in cancer biology, because of earlier controversyregarding whether lymphatic metastasis occurs via pre-existing or newly formedlymphatics. Recent evidence reveals that peri-tumoral or intra-tumorallymphangiogenesis is a precursor for lymphatic metastasis in most carcinomas and melanomas. Two major lymphangiogenic factors, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C and VEGF-D, are produced by cancer cells or immune cells such asmacrophages in the tumor-stroma to promote sprouting of lymphatics from lymphaticendothelial cells (LEC) or LEC precursors (LECP) by binding to their primary(high affinity) receptor VEGF-R3 or secondary receptors VEGF-R2, neuropilin(NRP)2 and α9/β1 integrin. Many other growth factors/receptors such asVEGF-A/VEGF-R2, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)2/FGF-R, platelet-derived growthfactor (PDGF)/PDGF-R, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)/C-Met, angiopoietins (Ang)1,2/Tie2, and chemokines/ chemokine receptors (CCL21/CCR7, CCL12/CCR4) can alsostimulate LEC sprouting directly or indirectly. This review deals with the roles of prostaglandins (PG), in particular PGE2, in cancer-associatedlymphangiogenesis, with special emphasis on breast cancer. We show thatcyclooxygenase (COX)-2 expression by breast cancer cells or tumor stroma leading to high PGE2 levels in the tumor milieu promotes lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastases, resulting from binding of PGE2 to PGE receptors (EP, in particularEP4) on multiple cell types: tumor cells, tumor-infiltrating immune cells, andLEC. EP4 activation on cancer cells and macrophages upregulated VEGF-C/Dproduction to stimulate LEC sprouting. Furthermore, ligation of EP4 with PGE2 on cancer or host cells can initiate a new cascade of molecular events leading tocross-talk between cancer cells and LEC, facilitating lymphangiogenesis andlympho-vascular transport of cancer cells. We make a case for EP4 as a potential therapeutic target for breast cancer.DOI: 10.1007/s10555-018-9734-0 PMID: 29858743 