113. Clin Breast Cancer. 2018 May 17. pii: S1526-8209(18)30236-2. doi:10.1016/j.clbc.2018.05.003. [Epub ahead of print]Air Travel Safety in Postoperative Breast Cancer Patients: A Systematic Review.Co M(1), Ng J(2), Kwong A(3).Author information: (1)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, The University of HongKong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR.(2)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, TheUniversity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR.(3)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, The University of HongKong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR. Electronic address: avakwong@hku.hk.Air travel has long been a dilemma in post-breast cancer surgery patients.Anecdotal reports have described adverse outcomes on surgical wound, implants,and lymphedema during air travel. This review aims to evaluate the best evidence from the literature concerning the air travel safety in breast cancer patients. Acomprehensive review was performed of the Medline, Embase, CINAHL, and Cochranedatabases using a predefined strategy. Retrieved studies were independentlyscreened and rated for relevance. Data were extracted by 2 researchers. Wereviewed the best evidence on air travel safety in postoperative breast cancerpatients. Evidence was limited in the current literature to suggest adverseeffects on postoperative mastectomy wounds and drains by high-altitude travel.Similarly, adverse effects on breast implants were limited to case reports andex vivo experiments. A systematic review of 12 studies concluded that air travel is not associated with upper limb lymphedema after breast cancer surgery.Deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) is a known complication after air travel; in addition,malignancy itself is a known risk factor for DVT. Evidence of safety to continue tamoxifen during the period of air travel is lacking in the literature. Evidence to support the use of systemic DVT prophylaxis in general postoperative breastcancer patients is also limited. Best evidence from a large retrospective studysuggested that mechanical antiembolism devices and early mobilization are theonly measures required. Air travel is generally safe in patients after breastcancer surgery.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2018.05.003 PMID: 29859745 