120. Radiat Oncol. 2018 Jun 1;13(1):104. doi: 10.1186/s13014-018-1028-8.Half brain irradiation in a murine model of breast cancer brain metastasis:magnetic resonance imaging and histological assessments of dose-response.Zarghami N(1), Murrell DH(1)(2), Jensen MD(1), Dick FA(3)(4)(5), ChambersAF(1)(4)(5), Foster PJ(1)(2), Wong E(6)(7)(8)(9).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Western Ontario, London,Ontario, Canada.(2)Imaging Research Laboratories, Robarts Research Institute, London, Ontario,Canada.(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,Canada.(4)London Regional Cancer Program, University of Western Ontario, London,Ontario, Canada.(5)Department of Oncology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,Canada.(6)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Western Ontario, London,Ontario, Canada. ewong4@uwo.ca.(7)London Regional Cancer Program, University of Western Ontario, London,Ontario, Canada. ewong4@uwo.ca.(8)Department of Oncology, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,Canada. ewong4@uwo.ca.(9)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Western Ontario, London,Ontario, Canada. ewong4@uwo.ca.BACKGROUND: Brain metastasis is becoming increasingly prevalent in breast cancer due to improved extra-cranial disease control. With emerging availability ofmodern image-guided radiation platforms, mouse models of brain metastases andsmall animal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we examined brain metastases'responses from radiotherapy in the pre-clinical setting. In this study, weemployed half brain irradiation to reduce inter-subject variability in metastasesdose-response evaluations.METHODS: Half brain irradiation was performed on a micro-CT/RT system in a human breast cancer (MDA-MB-231-BR) brain metastasis mouse model. Radiation induced DNAdouble stranded breaks in tumors and normal mouse brain tissue were quantifiedusing γ-H2AX immunohistochemistry at 30 min (acute) and 11 days (longitudinal)after half-brain treatment for doses of 8, 16 and 24 Gy. In addition, tumorresponses were assessed volumetrically with in-vivo longitudinal MRI andhistologically for tumor cell density and nuclear size.RESULTS: In the acute setting, γ-H2AX staining in tumors saturated at higherdoses while normal mouse brain tissue continued to increase linearly in thephosphorylation of H2AX. While γ-H2AX fluorescence intensities returned to thebackground level in the brain 11 days after treatment, the residual γ-H2AXphosphorylation in the radiated tumors remained elevated compared toun-irradiated contralateral tumors. With radiation, MRI-derived relative tumorgrowth was significantly reduced compared to the un-irradiated side. While there was no difference in MRI tumor volume growth between 16 and 24 Gy, there was asignificant reduction in tumor cell density from histology with increasing dose. In the longitudinal study, nuclear size in the residual tumor cells increasedsignificantly as the radiation dose was increased.CONCLUSIONS: Radiation damages to the DNAs in the normal brain parenchyma areresolved over time, but remain unrepaired in the treated tumors. Furthermore,there is a radiation dose response in nuclear size of surviving tumor cells.Increase in nuclear size together with unrepaired DNA damage indicated that thesurviving tumor cells post radiation had continued to progress in the cell cycle with DNA replication, but failed cytokinesis. Half brain irradiation providesefficient evaluation of dose-response for cancer cell lines, a pre-requisite toperform experiments to understand radio-resistance in brain metastases.DOI: 10.1186/s13014-018-1028-8 PMCID: PMC5984731PMID: 29859114 