Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.61. Biores Open Access. 2018 May 1;7(1):73-80. doi: 10.1089/biores.2018.0004.eCollection 2018.The Role of Diet and Lifestyle in Women with Breast Cancer: An Update Review ofRelated Research in the Middle East.Taha Z(1), Eltom SE(2)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Health Sciences, College of Natural and Health Sciences, ZayedUniversity, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.(2)Department of Biochemistry & Cancer Biology, Meharry Medical College,Nashville, Tennessee.(3)Center for Women's Health Research, Meharry Medical College, Nashville,Tennessee.Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among Arab women in EasternMediterranean Region (EMR). The incidence of breast cancer has substantiallyincreased in recent years among this women population, especially those youngerthan 50, and the incidence is expected to double by 2030. Considerableexperimental evidence supports the potential role of dietary habits and lifestylein cancer etiology and cancer prevention. In this review we examined theliterature for evidence to link dietary choices and the rise in incidence andmortality of breast cancer among women in EMR. A literature search was conducted in PubMed and Ovid MEDLINE databases up to December 2017. The search terms usedare breast cancer prevalence, breast cancer incidence worldwide, breast cancerand: nutrition, protein intake, vitamin D intake, fat intake, phytoestrogens,EMR, Arab, Middle East, Gulf countries, the UAE Arab women, breast cancer risk,diet, and chemoprevention. We found evidence to suggest that there is an alarmingepidemic of obesity among women in most of the EMR countries, especially GulfCooperation Council (GCC) countries. The rise in the new breast cancer casesamong women could be attributed to excess body weight. Their dietary pattern,which correlates with obesity, can be an important factor in the etiology ofcancer. Although very few studies were found to support a direct causalrelationship between obesity and breast cancer in the EMR, circumstantialevidence clearly points to the possible role of the epidemic, obesity, in thispopulation and the startling rise in cases of breast cancer. Well-designed andsystematic studies are urgently needed to confirm these associations and toelucidate potential mechanisms. More urgently, calls to action are needed in manysectors and at all levels of society, to establish intensive strategies forreducing obesity and promoting an overall healthy diet. Continued and expandedresearch on diet, lifestyle, and breast cancer risk is urgently needed to buildthe foundation for future progress in evidence-based public health efforts.DOI: 10.1089/biores.2018.0004 PMCID: PMC5982158PMID: 29862141 