158. Support Care Cancer. 2018 Jun 5. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4272-4. [Epub ahead ofprint]Cancer survivors in the workplace: sleep disturbance mediates the impact ofcancer on healthcare expenditures and work absenteeism.Gonzalez BD(1), Grandner MA(2), Caminiti CB(3), Hui SA(4).Author information: (1)Department of Health Outcomes and Behavior, Moffitt Cancer Center, 12902Magnolia Drive, MRC-CAN CONT, Tampa, FL, 33612, USA. Brian.Gonzalez@Moffitt.org.(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Arizona College of Medicine, Tucson,AZ, USA.(3)Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ, USA.(4)Research and Evaluation Group, Public Health Management Corporation,Philadelphia, PA, USA.PURPOSE: History of cancer is significantly associated with increases inhealthcare costs, worse work performance, and higher absenteeism in theworkplace. This is particularly important as most cancer survivors return toemployment. Sleep disturbance is a largely overlooked potential contributor tothese changes.METHODS: Data from 9488 state employees participating in the Kansas Stateemployee wellness program were used to assess cancer history, sleep disturbance, healthcare expenditures, work performance ratings, and absenteeism. Participants were categorized as having had no history of breast or prostate cancer, a pasthistory only with no current cancer treatment, or current treatment for breast orprostate cancer. Indirect mediation analyses determined whether sleep disturbancemediated the influence of cancer status on outcomes.RESULTS: Employees receiving treatment for breast or prostate cancer hadsignificantly greater healthcare expenditures and absenteeism than those with apast history or no history of cancer (ps < .0001). Sleep disturbancesignificantly mediated the impact of cancer on healthcare expenditures andabsenteeism (ps < .05), accounting for 2 and 8% of the impact of cancer onhealthcare expenditure and missed full days of work, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: The worse outcomes observed among employees receiving treatment for breast and prostate cancer, the most common forms of cancer among women and men, were partially explained by the impacts of cancer and treatment for cancer onsleep disturbance. These findings suggest that preventing or addressing sleepdisturbance may result in economic benefits in addition to improvements in healthand quality of life.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4272-4 PMID: 29869719 