35. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2018 Jun 27;10(25):21160-21172. doi:10.1021/acsami.8b05205. Epub 2018 Jun 12.A New Photosensitized Oxidation-Responsive Nanoplatform for Controlled DrugRelease and Photodynamic Cancer Therapy.Yeh HP(1), Del Valle AC(1), Syu MC(1), Qian Y(1), Chang YC(1), Huang YF(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Environmental Sciences , NationalTsing Hua University , Hsinchu , Taiwan ROC.Abnormal biochemical alteration such as unbalanced reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels has been considered as a potential disease-specific trigger to delivertherapeutics to target sites. However, in view of their minute variations inconcentration, short lifetimes, and limited ranges of action, in situ generation of ROS with specific manipulations should be more effective for ROS-responsivedrug delivery. Here we present a new delivery nanoplatform for photodynamictherapy (PDT) with on-demand drug release regulated by light irradiation. Rosebengal (RB) molecules, which exhibit a high yield of ROS generation, wereencapsulated in a mixture of chitosan (CTS), poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA), andbranched polyethylenimine ( bPEI) with hydrophobic iron oxide nanoparticlesthrough an oil-in-water emulsion method. The as-prepared magnetic nanoclusters(MNCs) with a tripolymer coating displayed high water dispersibility, efficientcellular uptake, and the cationic groups of CTS and bPEI were effective for RBloading through electrostatic interaction. The encapsulation efficiency of RB in MNCs could be further improved by increasing the amount of short bPEI chains.During the photodynamic process, controlled release of the host molecules (i.e., RB) or guest molecules (i.e., paclitaxel) from the bPEI-based nanoplatform wasachieved simultaneously through a photooxidation action sensitized by RB. Thisapproach promises specific payload release and highly effective PDT or PDTcombined therapy in various cancer cell lines including breast (MCF-7 andmultidrug resistant MCF-7 subline), SKOV-3 ovarian, and Tramp-C1 prostate. In in vivo xenograft studies, the nanoengineered light-switchable carrier also greatly augments its PDT efficacy against multidrug resistant MCF-7/MDR tumor as comparedwith free drugs. All the above findings suggest that the substantial effects ofenhanced drug distribution for efficient cancer therapy was achieved with thissmart nanocarrier capable of on demand drug release and delivery, thus exertingits therapeutic activity to a greater extent.DOI: 10.1021/acsami.8b05205 PMID: 29863836 