50. Pathol Int. 2018 Jul;68(7):409-418. doi: 10.1111/pin.12683. Epub 2018 Jun 4.Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii in granulomatous mastitis: Analysis offormalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens by immunostaining usinglow-specificity bacterial antisera and real-time polymerase chain reaction.Fujii M(1)(2), Mizutani Y(2), Sakuma T(3), Tagami K(4), Okamoto K(5), Kuno Y(6), Harada M(7), Kubouchi K(8), Tsutsumi Y(2).Author information: (1)Medical student.(2)Department of Pathology, Fujita Health University School of Medicine, Toyoake.(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and.(4)Surgery, Atsumi Hospital, Tahara.(5)Department of Surgery, Toyohashi Medical Center, Toyohashi, Aichi.(6)Hinaga Gastrointestinal and Breast Clinic, Yokkaichi, Mie.(7)Minami-Nagano Koen Clinic, Nagano.(8)Yokohama Breast and GI Clinic, Kohoku-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, Japan.Granulomatous mastitis (GM) is a rare inflammatory disease of the post-lactation breast, clinically mimicking breast cancer. GM is microscopically characterizedby formation of epithelioid granulomas and abscess (suppurative granulomas) with lipid droplet-centered inflammation. Corynebacterium kroppenstedtii (Ck) is knownas a causative bacterium of GM, and identification of Ck infection within thelesion should thus be essential for confirming the diagnosis. In the presentstudy, we analyzed formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) biopsy specimens of atotal of 18 GM lesions with immunostaining and real-time PCR for Ck genome.Widely cross-reactive rabbit antisera against Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG),Bacillus cereus, Treponema pallidum and Escherichia coli were chosen. Withreal-time PCR, Ck genome was demonstrated in 7 of 18 GM lesions.Immunohistochemically, the low-specificity antisera reacted with the cytoplasm ofphagocytes and/or granuloma-engulfed lipid droplets in 12 of 18 GM lesions.Antigenic positivity was observed in the following order: BCG > B. cereus > T.pallidum > E. coli. Real-time PCR using DNA extracted from FFPE sections wasuseful but not consistent for identifying the Ck genome in GM, whileimmunostaining using cross-reactive antisera against four kinds of bacteria wasnot Ck-specific but was applicable to visualizing bacterial infection within the GM lesions.© 2018 Japanese Society of Pathology and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/pin.12683 PMID: 29862601 