104. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Sep;105:267-273. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.05.058.Epub 2018 May 31.A ferutinin analogue with enhanced potency and selectivity against ER-positivebreast cancer cells in vitro.Safi R(1), Hamade A(2), Bteich N(2), El Saghir J(3), Assaf MD(4), El-Sabban M(5),Najjar F(6).Author information: (1)Departments of Chemistry-Biochemistry and Biology, Laboratoire d'InnovationThérapeutique, Faculty of Sciences II, Lebanese University, Lebanon; Departmentof Anatomy, Cell Biology and Physiological Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.(2)Departments of Chemistry-Biochemistry and Biology, Laboratoire d'InnovationThérapeutique, Faculty of Sciences II, Lebanese University, Lebanon.(3)Department of Anatomy, Cell Biology and Physiological Sciences, Faculty ofMedicine, American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.(4)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Faculty of Sciences II, LebaneseUniversity, Lebanon.(5)Department of Anatomy, Cell Biology and Physiological Sciences, Faculty ofMedicine, American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon. Electronic address:me00@aub.edu.lb.(6)Departments of Chemistry-Biochemistry and Biology, Laboratoire d'InnovationThérapeutique, Faculty of Sciences II, Lebanese University, Lebanon. Electronicaddress: fnajjar@ul.edu.lb.Estrogen is considered a risk factor for breast cancer since it promotesbreast-cell proliferation. The jaesckeanadiol-3-p-hydroxyphenylpropanoate, ahemi-synthetic analogue of the natural phytoestrogen ferutinin(jaesckeanadiol-p-hydroxybenzoate), is designed to be devoid of estrogenicactivity. This analogue induces a cytotoxic effect 30 times higher than that offerutinin towards MCF-7 breast cancer cell line. We compared these two compounds with respect to their effect on proliferation, cell cycle distribution and cancerstem-like cells in the MCF-7 cell line. Treatment with ferutinin (30 μM) and its analogue (1 μM) produced significant accumulation of cells at the pre G0/G1 cell cycle phase and triggered apoptosis. Importantly, this compound retains itsanti-proliferative activity against breast cancer stem/progenitor cells that are naturally insensitive to ferutinin at the same dose. These results positionferutinin analogue as an effective compound inhibiting the proliferation ofestrogen-dependent breast cancer cells and consistently targeting their stem-likecells.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.05.058 PMID: 29860218 