99. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2018 May 30. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djy091. [Epub ahead of print]An Integrative Approach for Deciphering the Causal Associations of PhysicalActivity and Cancer Risk: The Role of Adiposity.Giovannucci E(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Nutrition and Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. ChanSchool of Public Health, Boston, MA.(2)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital andHarvard Medical School, Boston, MA.Higher physical activity levels have been associated with about 10% to 25%reductions in up to 13 cancers. In isolation, these results are suggestive butnot compelling enough to conclude causal associations, except for colon andbreast cancer. However, knowledge on the relationships between obesity andcancer, between physical activity and overall and visceral adiposity, and betweenphysical activity and obesity-related mediators of cancer risk can inform theepidemiology of physical activity and cancer. Excluding primarily smoking-relatedmalignancies, for which residual confounding by smoking may occur, all 13 cancersassociated with lower physical activity are also obesity-related. Moreover, themagnitude of the inverse association between physical activity and cancer typecorrelates highly with the association with body mass index (BMI) and cancer type(Spearman r = .79, two-sided P = .004). Physical activity lowers essentially all the obesity-related mediators of cancer, probably mediated largely throughreductions in visceral adiposity. These findings strongly suggest that physicalactivity and adiposity are largely operating through similar carcinogenicmechanisms. That BMI has more robust associations than physical activity withcancer largely reflects that most populations studied have had great variation inBMI and little in physical activity. In populations with higher levels ofphysical activity and a lower range of BMI, physical activity may appearrelatively more important. It may be useful to emphasize to clinicians and thepublic that physical activity, by acting on the same mechanisms, is likely toreduce risk of obesity-related cancers, even if the impact on lowering BMI isminimal.DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djy091 PMID: 29860428 