51. Med Phys. 2018 Jun 3. doi: 10.1002/mp.13031. [Epub ahead of print]Feasibility of estimating volumetric breast density from mammographic x-rayspectra using a cadmium telluride photon-counting detector.Ghammraoui B(1), Badal A(1), Glick SJ(1).Author information: (1)Office of Science and Engineering Laboratories, CDRH, U.S. Food and DrugAdministration, Silver Spring, MD, 20993-0002, USA.PURPOSE: Mammographic density of glandular breast tissue has a masking effectthat can reduce lesion detection accuracy and is also a strong risk factor forbreast cancer. Therefore, accurate quantitative estimation of breast density isclinically important. In this study, we investigate experimentally thefeasibility of quantifying volumetric breast density with spectral mammographyusing a CdTe-based photon-counting detector.METHODS: To demonstrate proof-of-principle, this study was carried out using the single pixel Amptek XR-100T-CdTe detector. The total number of x rays recorded bythe detector from a single pencil-beam projection through 50%/50% ofadipose/glandular mass fraction-equivalent phantoms was measured. Materialdecomposition assuming two, four, and eight energy bins was then applied tocharacterize the inspected phantom into adipose and glandular usinglog-likelihood estimation, taking into account the polychromatic source, thedetector response function, and the energy-dependent attenuation.RESULTS: Measurement tests were carried out for different doses, kVp settings,and different breast sizes. For dose of 1 mGy and above, the percent relativeroot mean square (RMS) errors of the estimated breast density was measured below 7% for all three phantom studies. It was also observed that some decrease in RMS errors was achieved using eight energy bins. For 3 and 4 cm thick phantoms,performance at 40 and 45 kVp showed similar performance. However, it was observedthat 45 kVp showed better performance for a phantom thickness of 6 cm at low doselevels due to increased statistical variation at lower photon count levels with40 kVp.CONCLUSION: The results of the current study suggest that photon-countingspectral mammography systems using CdTe detectors have the potential to be usedfor accurate quantification of volumetric breast density on a pixel-to-pixelbasis, with an RMS error of less than 7%.Published 2018. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the publicdomain in the USA.DOI: 10.1002/mp.13031 PMID: 29862520 