150. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2018 Jun 5:e12861. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12861. [Epub ahead of print]Changes in metabolic risk, insulin resistance, leptin and adiponectin following alifestyle intervention in overweight and obese breast cancer survivors.Travier N(1), Buckland G(2), Vendrell JJ(3), Fernandez-Veledo S(3), Peiró I(4),Del Barco S(5), Pernas S(6), Zamora E(7), Bellet M(7), Margeli M(8), CirauquiB(8), Muñoz M(9), Tusquets I(10), Arcusa A(11), Javierre C(12), Moreno F(6),Rodriguez A(6), Agudo A(2).Author information: (1)Cancer Prevention and Control Programme, Catalan Institute of Oncology(ICO-IDIBELL), Barcelona, Spain.(2)Unit of Nutrition and Cancer, Cancer Epidemiology Research Programme, Catalan Institute of Oncology (ICO-IDIBELL), Barcelona, Spain.(3)Diabetes and Metabolic Associated Diseases Research Group, Hospital JoanXXIII, School of Medicine, Rovira i Virgili University, Tarragona, Spain.(4)Clinical Nutrition Unit, Catalan Institute of Oncology (ICO-IDIBELL),Barcelona, Spain.(5)Department of Medical Oncology-ICO, Hospital Universitari de Girona Dr. Josep Trueta, Girona, Spain.(6)Breast Cancer Functional Unit, Catalan Institute of Oncology (ICO-IDIBELL),Barcelona, Spain.(7)Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO), Breast Cancer Unit, Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.(8)Department of Medical Oncology-ICO, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Barcelona,Spain.(9)Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain.(10)Department of Medical Oncology, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain.(11)Department of Medical Oncology, Consorci Sanitari de Terrassa, Terrassa,Spain.(12)Department of Physiological Sciences II, School of Medicine, University ofBarcelona, Barcelona, Spain.Adiposity and physical activity are modifiable factors that could be importantdeterminants of breast cancer (BC) prognosis through their effects on endogenous reproductive hormones, chronic inflammation and metabolic changes. Therefore, it is necessary to evaluate whether offering lifestyle interventions to BC survivorscould affect the levels of certain biomarkers involved in these mechanisms. Wedesigned a pre-post intervention study offering diet and exercise sessions over12 weeks to 42 overweight/obese BC survivors. Before and after the intervention, we obtained dietary information, anthropometry and cardiorespiratory fitness(CRF) measurements and blood samples to measure metabolic risk, insulinresistance and adipokines biomarkers. Wilcoxon signed-rank tests and Spearmanpartial correlation coefficients were used to compare pre- and post-measurements and assess the correlations between changes in biomarkers and changes inanthropometry and CRF. Breast cancer survivors showed significant improvements inmetabolic risk biomarkers and insulin resistance indicators along with anon-significant leptin decrease and a significant adiponectin decrease. Theimprovements in metabolic risk biomarkers, insulin resistance indicators andleptin were moderately correlated (0.32 ≤ |r| ≤ 0.55) with the decrease in bodymass index and the increase in CRF. Diet and exercise interventions implementedin overweight/obese BC survivors may improve metabolic risk, insulin resistanceand leptin biomarkers.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12861 PMID: 29869823 