160. Cancer Med. 2018 Jun 4. doi: 10.1002/cam4.1589. [Epub ahead of print]Friend leukemia virus integration 1 is a predictor of poor prognosis of breastcancer and promotes metastasis and cancer stem cell properties of breast cancercells.Yan X(1)(2), Yu Y(2), Li L(2), Chen N(2), Song W(2), He H(2), Dong J(2), LiuX(2), Cui J(2).Author information: (1)Pathological Diagnostic Center, The First Hospital of Jilin University,Changchun, Jilin, China.(2)Cancer Center, The First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin,China.Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide; despite thedevelopments in diagnosis and therapy, recurrence and metastasis remain the main causes of death among patients with breast cancer. This study aimed to identify apromising biomarker for this disease. The study clarified (1) the associationbetween Friend leukemia virus integration 1 (FLI-1) and various molecularsubtypes and (2) the prognostic value of FLI-1 in breast cancer. To the best ofour knowledge, this study is the first to report that FLI-1 is a predictor ofpoor prognosis in patients with breast cancer and overexpressed in the triplenegative breast cancer (TNBC) subtype. To further verify the effect of FLI-1 inpromoting the metastasis of TNBC, we performed a series of functional experimentsin vitro and orthotopic xenograft experiments in the mammary fat pad of nudemice. FLI-1, as a transcription factor, bound to the promoters of key EMT-relatedgenes (CDH1 and VIM), and regulated their expressions at the transcriptionallevel, thus induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). The overexpressionof FLI-1 significantly upregulated the expression of mesenchymal markers. Afterthe modulation of FLI-1, the changes in mammary stem cell markers (ALDH1A1 andCD133) and the capacity to form mammospheres were consistent with those of theEMT-related markers. The orthotopic xenograft models further confirmed that theattenuation of stem cell traits after silencing FLI-1 decreased the ability oftumorigenesis. These results indicate that FLI-1 is a useful predictor of poorprognosis in patients with breast cancer. Furthermore, the preliminaryexploration of metastatic mechanism in the patients with TNBC will provide apotential target to treat breast cancer in the near future.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1589 PMID: 29869379 