183. Front Microbiol. 2018 May 15;9:951. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00951. eCollection2018.Distinct Microbial Signatures Associated With Different Breast Cancer Types.Banerjee S(1), Tian T(2), Wei Z(2), Shih N(3), Feldman MD(3), Peck KN(1),DeMichele AM(4), Alwine JC(5), Robertson ES(1).Author information: (1)Tumor Virology Program, Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and NeckSurgery and Microbiology, Abramson Cancer Center, Perelman School of Medicine,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.(2)Department of Computer Science, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Newark,NJ, United States.(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.(4)Division of Hematology Oncology, Department of Medicine, Perelman School ofMedicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.(5)Department of Cancer Biology, Perelman School of Medicine, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.A dysbiotic microbiome can potentially contribute to the pathogenesis of manydifferent diseases including cancer. Breast cancer is the second leading cause ofcancer death in women. Thus, we investigated the diversity of the microbiome inthe four major types of breast cancer: endocrine receptor (ER) positive, triplepositive, Her2 positive and triple negative breast cancers. Using a whole genome and transcriptome amplification and a pan-pathogen microarray (PathoChip)strategy, we detected unique and common viral, bacterial, fungal and parasiticsignatures for each of the breast cancer types. These were validated by PCR andSanger sequencing. Hierarchical cluster analysis of the breast cancer samples,based on their detected microbial signatures, showed distinct patterns for thetriple negative and triple positive samples, while the ER positive and Her2positive samples shared similar microbial signatures. These signatures, unique orcommon to the different breast cancer types, provide a new line of investigation to gain further insights into prognosis, treatment strategies and clinicaloutcome, as well as better understanding of the role of the micro-organisms inthe development and progression of breast cancer.DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.00951 PMCID: PMC5962706PMID: 29867857 