177. Front Genet. 2018 May 16;9:176. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00176. eCollection 2018.A Leveraged Signal-to-Noise Ratio (LSTNR) Method to Extract DifferentiallyExpressed Genes and Multivariate Patterns of Expression From Noisy andLow-Replication RNAseq Data.Lozoya OA(1), Santos JH(1), Woychik RP(1).Author information: (1)Genome Integrity and Structural Biology Laboratory, National Institute ofEnvironmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Durham, NC, United States.To life scientists, one important feature offered by RNAseq, a next-generationsequencing tool used to estimate changes in gene expression levels, lies in itsunprecedented resolution. It can score countable differences in transcriptnumbers among thousands of genes and between experimental groups, all at once.However, its high cost limits experimental designs to very small sample sizes,usually N = 3, which often results in statistically underpowered analysis andpoor reproducibility. All these issues are compounded by the presence ofexperimental noise, which is harder to distinguish from instrumental error whensample sizes are limiting (e.g., small-budget pilot tests), experimentalpopulations exhibit biologically heterogeneous or diffuse expression phenotypes(e.g., patient samples), or when discriminating among transcriptional signatures of closely related experimental conditions (e.g., toxicological modes of action, or MOAs). Here, we present a leveraged signal-to-noise ratio (LSTNR) thresholdingmethod, founded on generalized linear modeling (GLM) of aligned read detectionlimits to extract differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from noisylow-replication RNAseq data. The LSTNR method uses an agnostic independentfiltering strategy to define the dynamic range of detected aggregate read counts per gene, and assigns statistical weights that prioritize genes with bettersequencing resolution in differential expression analyses. To assess itsperformance, we implemented the LSTNR method to analyze three separate datasets: first, using a systematically noisy in silico dataset, we demonstrated that LSTNRcan extract pre-designed patterns of expression and discriminate between "noise" and "true" differentially expressed pseudogenes at a 100% success rate; then, we illustrated how the LSTNR method can assign patient-derived breast cancerspecimens correctly to one out of their four reported molecular subtypes (luminalA, luminal B, Her2-enriched and basal-like); and last, we showed the ability toretrieve five different modes of action (MOA) elicited in livers of rats exposed to three toxicants under three nutritional routes by using the LSTNR method. Bycombining differential measurements with resolving power to detect DEGs, theLSTNR method offers an alternative approach to interrogate noisy andlow-replication RNAseq datasets, which handles multiple biological conditions at once, and defines benchmarks to validate RNAseq experiments with standardbenchtop assays.DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00176 PMCID: PMC5964166PMID: 29868123 