59. JCO Precis Oncol. 2018;2018. doi: 10.1200/PO.17.00091. Epub 2018 Jan 26.Accurate RNA Sequencing From Formalin-Fixed Cancer Tissue To RepresentHigh-Quality Transcriptome From Frozen Tissue.Li J(1), Fu C(2), Speed TP(3)(4)(5), Wang W(1), Symmans WF(2).Author information: (1)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University ofTexas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(2)Departments of Pathology and Translational Molecular Pathology, The Universityof Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(3)Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley,California, USA.(4)Bioinformatics Division, The Walter and Eliza Hall. Institute of MedicalResearch, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.(5)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, The University of Melbourne,Victoria, Australia.Purpose: Accurate transcriptional sequencing (RNA-seq) from formalin-fixation andparaffin-embedding (FFPE) tumor samples presents an important challenge fortranslational research and diagnostic development. In addition, there are nowseveral different protocols to prepare a sequencing library from total RNA. Weevaluated the accuracy of RNA-seq data generated from FFPE samples in terms ofexpression profiling.Methods: We designed a biospecimen study to directly compare gene expressionresults from different protocols to prepare libraries for RNA-seq from humanbreast cancer tissues, with randomization to fresh-frozen (FF) or FFPEconditions. The protocols were compared using multiple computational methods toassess alignment of reads to reference genome, and the uniformity and continuity of coverage; as well as the variance and correlation, of overall gene expression and patterns of measuring coding sequence, phenotypic patterns of geneexpression, and measurements from representative multigene signatures.Results: The principal determinant of variance in gene expression was use of exoncapture probes, followed by the conditions of preservation (FF versus FFPE), and phenotypic differences between breast cancers. One protocol, with RNase H-basedrRNA depletion, exhibited least variability of gene expression measurements,strongest correlation between FF and FFPE samples, and was generallyrepresentative of the transcriptome from standard FF RNA-seq protocols.Conclusion: Method of RNA-seq library preparation from FFPE samples had markedeffect on the accuracy of gene expression measurement compared to matched FFsamples. Nevertheless, some protocols produced highly concordant expression data from FFPE RNA-seq data, compared to RNA-seq results from matched frozen samples.PMCID: PMC5976456PMID: 29862382 