Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.30. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 4;13(6):e0197815. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197815.eCollection 2018.Integration of in vitro and in silico perspectives to explain chemicalcharacterization, biological potential and anticancer effects of Hypericumsalsugineum: A pharmacologically active source for functional drug formulations.Bender O(1), Llorent-Martínez EJ(2), Zengin G(3), Mollica A(4), Ceylan R(3),Molina-García L(2), Fernández-de Córdova ML(2), Atalay A(1).Author information: (1)Biotechnology Institute, Ankara University, Ankara, Turkey.(2)Department of Physical and Analytical Chemistry, University of Jaén, CampusLas Lagunillas S/N, Jaén, Spain.(3)Deparment of Biology, Science Faculty, Selcuk University, Campus, Konya,Turkey.(4)Department of Pharmacy, University "G. d'Annunzio" of Chieti-Pescara,Chieti-Italy.The genus Hypericum is one of the most popular genera in both traditionalmedicine and scientific platform. This study is designed to provide conceptualinsights on the biological potential and chemical characterization of H.salsugineum, which is endemic to Turkey. The qualitative and quantitativephenolic content of the extracts was characterized by HPLC-ESI-MSn. Biologicalefficiency was investigated by enzyme inhibitory assays (cholinesterases,tyrosinase, amylase, and glucosidase) and anti-cancer efficacy tests(anti-proliferative activities with the iCELLigence technology, colony formation and wound healing scratch assays). Phenolic acids (3-O-caffeoylquinic,5-O-caffeoylquinic, and 4-O-caffeoylquinic acids) were the predominant group inthe studied extracts, although several flavonoids were also detected andquantified. The extracts exhibited good inhibitory effects on tyrosinase andglucosidase, while they had weak ability against cholinesterases and amylase.Computational studies were also performed to explain the interactions between themajor phenolics and these enzymes. The extracts displayed significant anti-cancereffects on breast carcinoma cell lines. Our findings suggest that Hypericumsalsugineum could be valued as a potential source of biologically-activecompounds for designing novel products.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197815 PMCID: PMC5986121PMID: 29864137 