14. J Xray Sci Technol. 2018 May 28. doi: 10.3233/XST-18374. [Epub ahead of print]A similarity measure method combining location feature for mammogram retrieval.Wang Z(1), Xin J(2), Huang Y(1), Li C(1), Xu L(1), Li Y(1), Zhang H(3), Gu H(4), Qian W(5).Author information: (1)Sino-Dutch Biomedical and Information Engineering School, NortheasternUniversity, China.(2)School of Computer Science and Engineering, Key Laboratory of Big DataManagement and Analytics(Liaoning Province), Northeastern University, China.(3)Breast Disease and Reconstruction Center, Breast Cancer Key Lab of Dalian, theSecond Hospital of Dalian Medical University, China.(4)Department of Internal Neurology, the Second Hospital of Dalian MedicalUniversity, China.(5)College of Engineering, University of Texas at El Paso, USA.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer, the most common malignancy among women, has a highmortality rate in clinical practice. Early detection, diagnosis and treatment canreduce the mortalities of breast cancer greatly. The method of mammogramretrieval can help doctors to find the early breast lesions effectively anddetermine a reasonable feature set for image similarity measure. This willimprove the accuracy effectively for mammogram retrieval.METHODS: This paper proposes a similarity measure method combining locationfeature for mammogram retrieval. Firstly, the images are pre-processed, theregions of interest are detected and the lesions are segmented in order to getthe center point and radius of the lesions. Then, the method, namely CoherentPoint Drift, is used for image registration with the pre-defined standard image. The center point and radius of the lesions after registration are obtained andthe standard location feature of the image is constructed. This standard locationfeature can help figure out the location similarity between the image pair fromthe query image to each dataset image in the database. Next, the content feature of the image is extracted, including the Histogram of Oriented Gradients, theEdge Direction Histogram, the Local Binary Pattern and the Gray Level Histogram, and the image pair content similarity can be calculated using the Earth Mover'sDistance. Finally, the location similarity and content similarity are fused toform the image fusion similarity, and the specified number of the most similarimages can be returned according to it.RESULTS: In the experiment, 440 mammograms, which are from Chinese women inNortheast China, are used as the database. When fusing 40% lesion locationfeature similarity and 60% content feature similarity, the results have obviousadvantages. At this time, precision is 0.83, recall is 0.76, comprehensiveindicator is 0.79, satisfaction is 96.0%, mean is 4.2 and variance is 17.7.CONCLUSIONS: The results show that the precision and recall of this method haveobvious advantage, compared with the content-based image retrieval.DOI: 10.3233/XST-18374 PMID: 29865106 