186. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018 May 16;9:239. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00239.eCollection 2018.Regulatory Actions of LH and Follicle-Stimulating Hormone on Breast Cancer Cells and Mammary Tumors in Rats.Sanchez AM(1)(2), Flamini MI(1)(3), Zullino S(1), Russo E(1), Giannini A(1),Mannella P(1), Naccarato AG(4), Genazzani AR(1), Simoncini T(1).Author information: (1)Molecular and Cellular Gynecological Endocrinology Laboratory (MCGEL),Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa,Italy.(2)Laboratorio de Transducción de Señales y Movimiento Celular, Instituto deMedicina y Biología Experimental de Cuyo (IMBECU), Consejo Nacional deInvestigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Mendoza, Argentina.(3)Laboratorio de Biología Tumoral, Instituto de Medicina y Biología Experimentalde Cuyo (IMBECU), Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas(CONICET), Mendoza, Argentina.(4)Department of Translational Research and of New Surgical and MedicalTechnologies, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.Gonadotrophins are mainly known to influence the body through the formation ofgonadal steroids. However, receptors for luteinizing hormone (LH) andfollicular-stimulating hormone (FSH) are present in a set of extra-gonadaltissues in humans and animals, but their functional relevance is uncertain. Inthis article, we present experimental evidence that, in T-47D breast cancer (BC) cells, FSH, and LH alter the expression of genes involved in adhesion, motility, and invasion through the activation of their receptors. Using miniarraytechnology we also found that LH influences the expression of a broad set ofgenes involved in cancer biology in T-47D cells. Interestingly, the regulatoryactions of FSH and LH depend on the modality of exposure, with significantdifferences between pre-pubertal-like vs. post-menopausal-like amounts ofgonadotrophins, but not after intermittent administration, representative offertile life. We also studied the modulation of the circulating levels ofgonadotrophins in an in vivo rat model of BC progression and observed a directcorrelation with the extent of cancer growth. These results support thehypothesis that gonadotrophins may have direct effects on extra-gonadal tissues. They also highlight that gonadotrophins could potentially contribute to BCprogression, particularly in post-menopausal women who typically have highergonadotrophin levels. This research may ultimately lead to testing the use ofgonadotrophin-modulating drugs in BC patients.DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00239 PMCID: PMC5964138PMID: 29867771 