Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have noconflicts of interest to declare.45. Ann Gastroenterol Surg. 2017 Aug 31;1(3):180-185. doi: 10.1002/ags3.12027.eCollection 2017 Sep.Novel surgical approach based on the sentinel node concept in patients with earlygastric cancer.Natsugoe S(1)(2), Arigami T(1)(2), Uenosono Y(2), Yanagita S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Digestive Surgery, Breast and Thyroid Surgery Field of Oncology Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences KagoshimaJapan.(2)Molecular Frontier Surgery Course of Advanced Therapeutics KagoshimaUniversity Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences Kagoshima Japan.Recent prospective multicenter trials have demonstrated the clinical safety andefficacy of sentinel node navigation surgery (SNNS) in patients with earlygastric cancer. Further, development of an intraoperative imaging system and anindocyanine green fluorescence imaging approach has been attracting attention as a novel tool for detection of the sentinel node (SN). The greatest advantage ofan in vivo imaging system is that it visualizes SN and afferent lymphatic vesselsfrom the primary tumor site more clearly than the conventional dye approach.Besides visualization of the SN, it is also essential to accurately assess thepresence or absence of lymph node metastasis in the intraoperative management of SNNS. However, the clinical significance of lymph node micrometastasis (LNM) inpatients with gastric cancer remains controversial. Reversetranscription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is one of the representativeassays used to identify LNM. A rapid RT-PCR assay that completes the detection ofLNM within approximately 40 minutes has recently been produced and applied in theclinical management of SNNS. From the viewpoint of surgical methods, modifiedlaparoscopic and endoscopic cooperative surgery with non-exposed approaches hasrecently been highlighted as a promising technique to prevent tumor disseminationcaused by surgical procedures, and is likely to be clinically applied to SNNS in the future. When carrying out SNNS as a minimally invasive surgery, it isimportant to consider the balance between post-surgical quality of life andcurability. Future prospective studies on SNNS will greatly contribute tofurthering its establishment as a beneficial procedure for patients with earlygastric cancer.DOI: 10.1002/ags3.12027 PMCID: PMC5881309PMID: 29863111 