Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare noconflicts of interest.69. Oncotarget. 2018 May 18;9(38):24882-24897. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25427.eCollection 2018 May 18.Large set data mining reveals overexpressed GPCRs in prostate and breast cancer: potential for active targeting with engineered anti-cancer nanomedicines.Kübler E(1), Albrecht H(2).Author information: (1)Institute for Chemistry and Bioanalytics, School of Life Sciences, University of Applied Sciences and Arts Northwestern Switzerland, Muttenz 4132, Switzerland.(2)Centre for Pharmaceutical Innovation and Development, Centre for DrugDiscovery and Development, Sansom Institute for Health Research, School ofPharmacy and Medical Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, SA 5001, Australia.Over 800 G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are encoded by the human genome and many are overexpressed in tumors. GPCRs are triggered by ligand molecules outsidethe cell and activate internal signal transduction pathways driving cellularresponses. The receptor signals are desensitized by receptor internalization and this mechanism can be exploited for the specific delivery of ligand-linked drugmolecules directly into cells. Detailed expression analysis in cancer tissue can inform the design of GPCR-ligand decorated drug carriers for active tumor celltargeting. The active targeting process utilizes ligand receptor interactionsleading to binding and in most cases internalization of the ligand-attached drug carrier resulting in effective targeting of cancer cells. In this report publicmicroarray data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) repository was used toidentify overexpressed GPCRs in prostate and breast cancer tissues. The analyzed data confirmed previously known cancer receptor associations and identified novelcandidates for potential active targeting. Prioritization of the identifiedtargeting receptors is also presented based on high expression levels andfrequencies in cancer samples but low expression in healthy tissue. Finally, someselected examples were used in ligand docking studies to assess the feasibilityfor chemical conjugation to drug nanocarriers without interference of receptorbinding and activation. The presented data demonstrate a large untapped potentialto improve efficacy and safety of current and future anti-cancer compoundsthrough active targeting of GPCRs on cancer cells.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25427 PMCID: PMC5982759PMID: 29861840 