39. J Psychosoc Oncol. 2018 Jun 4:1-16. doi: 10.1080/07347332.2018.1469565. [Epubahead of print]Catalysts towards cancer risk management action: A longitudinal study ofreproductive-aged women with BRCA1/2 mutations.Werner-Lin A(1), Ersig AL(2), Mueller R(3), Young JL(4), Hoskins LM(5), DesaiR(6), Greene MH(7).Author information: (1)a School of Social Policy and Practice, University of Pennsylvania ,Philadelphia , PA.(2)b School of Nursing and American Family Children's Hospital, University ofWisconsin-Madison , Madison , WI.(3)c Department of Philosophy , School of Arts of Sciences, University ofPennsylvania , Philadelphia , PA.(4)d Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics , Clinical Genetics Branch,National Cancer Institute , Bethesda , MD.(5)e Lindsey Hoskins & Associates , Bethesda , MD.(6)f School of Arts of Sciences, University of Pennsylvania , Philadelphia , PA.(7)g Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics , Clinical Genetics Branch,National Cancer Institute , Bethesda , MD.Deleterious mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes increase a woman's lifetime risk ofbreast and ovarian cancer. Risk management guidelines endorse early detection andprevention behaviors. Despite expressed intent, uptake of these measures remains low. This longitudinal, qualitative study integrated retrospective andprospective data to distinguish factors shaping intent to act from those that arecatalysts to taking action to reduce cancer risk. Twelve BRCA1/2mutation-positive women participating in the National Cancer Institute's BreastImaging Study aged 18-35 completed two semi-structured interviews three yearsapart. Researchers completed focused coding to identify points of behavioralintent and action and contextual factors acting as catalysts upon participantnarratives. All women shared only two action steps: seeking information aboutcancer risk and completing genetic testing. The constellation of action stepscreated a unique action trajectory that was defined, with precise ideas aboutrisk perception and clear behavioral response, or iterative, in whichunanticipated life events shifted the speed, accessibility, or order in whichrisk management and family planning goals were prioritized, planned, or executed.Factors shifting action steps included salient, unanticipated life events, suchas infertility, insurance/financial constraints, birth of the last child, or arelative's cancer diagnosis. Focus on cancer morbidity may obfuscate how womenprioritize actions, and ignore varied pragmatic, relational, and social factorsaffecting how intended actions are completed, particularly during thereproductive years. We recommend providers update patients' risk management plansat each visit to assess readiness for next steps and reduce reluctance todiscuss, or guilt associated with, change.DOI: 10.1080/07347332.2018.1469565 PMID: 29863445 