Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare that theyhave no competing interests.60. Adv Biomed Res. 2018 Apr 25;7:75. doi: 10.4103/abr.abr_187_17. eCollection 2018.Postmastectomy Information Needs and Information-seeking Motives for Women withBreast Cancer.Latifi M(1), Salimi S(2), Barahmand N(3), Fahimnia F(3), Allahbakhshian FarsaniL(1).Author information: (1)Department of Information Sciences and Knowledge Studies, Faculty ofPsychology and Education, Kharazmi University, Tehran, Iran.(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Imam-Hossein General Hospital, Shahid BeheshtiUniversity of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(3)Department of Information Sciences and Knowledge Studies, Faculty ofManagement, Tehran University, Tehran, Iran.Background: Health information-seeking behavior is a key concept in theempowerment of women with breast cancer after mastectomy for self-caremanagement. Thus, a real understanding of their information needs and theirinformation-seeking behavior may open up new opportunities for their postsurgery cares. The current research was conducted to identify the information needs andinformation-seeking motives of women with breast cancer after mastectomy.Materials and Methods: This is an applied qualitative research. Samples included 17 women with breast cancer after mastectomy selected from two hospitals ofShahid Mohammadi and Persian Gulf and Omid Central Chemotherapy in Bandar Abbas. Data were collected using semi-structured interview on winter 2014 and analyzedusing qualitative content analysis method.Results: Three basic contents were extracted including information needs related to mental health, physical health related to disease and personal dailyactivities along with their subcategories, and representing common experience andperception of mastectomized women seeking for health information. Furthermore,hope, self-esteem, return to life, and available social support resources wereexpressed as the main information-seeking motives.Conclusion: Considering research findings, mastectomized women need to receiveinformation in wide range of health and thus pursue purposeful behavior. Hence,it is necessary that required actions and measures are taken by health-careauthorities, especially institutions responsible for women health, to support andmeet information needs of the patients considering their information-seekingmotives.DOI: 10.4103/abr.abr_187_17 PMCID: PMC5952531PMID: 29862224 