175. Cureus. 2018 Mar 31;10(3):e2401. doi: 10.7759/cureus.2401.Transdermal Testosterone in Female Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder: A RapidQualitative Systematic Review Using Grading of Recommendations Assessment,Development and Evaluation.Ganesan K(1), Habboush Y(1), Sultan S(2).Author information: (1)Internal Medicine, Orange Park Medical Center.(2)Endocrinology, Orange Park Medical Center.Female hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD) is a multifactorial sexualdysfunction disorder characterized by a decrease in sexual desire and personaldistress. HSDD occurs in naturally occurring postmenopausal women or secondary tooophorectomy. Multiple studies have assessed the use of transdermal testosterone (TDT) as a management option for patients with HSDD. Our aim is to assesspublished studies using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Developmentand Evaluation (GRADE) framework for the quality of evidence regardingtestosterone use as a short- and long-term therapy for HSDD. We implemented this qualitative systematic review following the Preferred Reporting Items forSystematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) checklist. We set a GRADE score of 4 (high evidence) as a cutoff point for the quality measure of published studies assessing the use of TDT in HSDD. The outcomes of interest were the efficacy ofTDT on the total number of satisfying sexual activity, number of orgasms, sexual desire and distress level in patients with HSDD. These outcomes were evaluatedthrough Sexual Activity Log (SAL), Profile of Female Sexual Function (PFSF), and Personal Distress Scale (PDS) evaluation tools. Five randomized controlled trialswere identified to meet the inclusion criteria. The selected studies were of highevidence based on the GRADE score as two of the studies scored 4 points, theother two studies scored 5 points and one study scored 6 points. All of the high quality selected studies had similar outcomes suggesting high effectiveness forthe use of 300 µg/d TDT with or without estrogen for the management of HSDD with minimal side effects. One study showed a trend for higher risk of breast cancerin long-term use (0.37%). The use of 300 µg/d of TDT in surgical and naturalmenopause is an effective plan to manage HSDD in the short- and long-term.Although side effects are minimal, further prospective research is needed toassess the more severe side effects such as breast cancer in the long-term use ofTDT.DOI: 10.7759/cureus.2401 PMCID: PMC5984263PMID: 29868302 