Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare noconflicts of interest.68. Oncotarget. 2018 May 18;9(38):25008-25024. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25186.eCollection 2018 May 18.Real-time scratch assay reveals mechanisms of early calcium signaling in breastcancer cells in response to wounding.Pratt SJP(1)(2)(3), Hernández-Ochoa EO(1), Lee RM(2)(3), Ory EC(2)(3), LyonsJS(4), Joca HC(4), Johnson A(2), Thompson K(2)(3), Bailey P(1)(2)(3), LeeCJ(2)(3), Mathias T(2)(3), Vitolo MI(2)(3), Trudeau M(2), Stains JP(4), WardCW(4)(5), Schneider MF(1), Martin SS(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of MarylandSchool of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.(2)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,Baltimore, MD, USA.(3)Marlene and Stewart Greenebaum NCI Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.(4)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Maryland School of Medicine,Baltimore, MD, USA.(5)School of Nursing, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA.Aggressive cellular phenotypes such as uncontrolled proliferation and increasedmigration capacity engender cellular transformation, malignancy and metastasis.While genetic mutations are undisputed drivers of cancer initiation andprogression, it is increasingly accepted that external factors are also playing amajor role. Two recently studied modulators of breast cancer are changes in thecellular mechanical microenvironment and alterations in calcium homeostasis.While many studies investigate these factors separately in breast cancer cells,very few do so in combination. This current work sets a foundation to exploremechano-calcium relationships driving malignant progression in breast cancer.Utilizing real-time imaging of an in vitro scratch assay, we were able to resolvemechanically-sensitive calcium signaling in human breast cancer cells. Weobserved rapid initiation of intracellular calcium elevations within seconds incells at the immediate wound edge, followed by a time-dependent increase incalcium in cells at distances up to 500μm from the scratch wound. Calciumsignaling to neighboring cells away from the wound edge returned to baselinewithin seconds. Calcium elevations at the wound edge however, persisted for up to50 minutes. Rigorous quantification showed that extracellular calcium wasnecessary for persistent calcium elevation at the wound edge, but intercellularsignal propagation was dependent on internal calcium stores. In addition,intercellular signaling required extracellular ATP and activation of P2Y2receptors. Through comparison of scratch-induced signaling from multiple celllines, we report drastic reductions in response from aggressively tumorigenic andmetastatic cells. The real-time scratch assay established here providesquantitative data on the molecular mechanisms that support rapid scratch-induced calcium signaling in breast cancer cells. These mechanisms now provide a clearframework for investigating which short-term calcium signals promote long-termchanges in cancer cell biology.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25186 PMCID: PMC5982755PMID: 29861849 