Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.31. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 4;13(6):e0197702. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197702.eCollection 2018.Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor protects cancer cells from immunogeniccell death and impairs anti-tumor immune responses.Balogh KN(1), Templeton DJ(1), Cross JV(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia School of Medicine,Charlottesville, VA, United States of America.The Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor (MIF) is an inflammatory cytokine thatis overexpressed in a number of cancer types, with increased MIF expression oftencorrelating with tumor aggressiveness and poor patient outcomes. In this study,we aimed to better understand the link between primary tumor expression of MIFand increased tumor growth. Using the MMTV-PyMT murine model of breast cancer, weobserved that elevated MIF expression promoted tumor appearance and growth.Supporting this, we confirmed our previous observation that higher MIF expressionsupported tumor growth in the 4T1 murine model of breast cancer. We subsequently discovered that loss of MIF expression in 4T1 cells led to decreased cell numbersand increased apoptosis in vitro under reduced serum culture conditions. Wehypothesized that this increase in cell death would promote detection by the hostimmune system in vivo, which could explain the observed impairment in tumorgrowth. Supporting this, we demonstrated that loss of MIF expression in theprimary tumor led to an increased abundance of intra-tumoral IFNgamma-producingCD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and that depletion of T cells from mice bearingMIF-deficient tumors restored growth to the level of MIF-expressing tumors.Furthermore, we found that MIF depletion from the tumor cells resulted in greaternumbers of activated intra-tumoral dendritic cells (DCs). Lastly, we demonstratedthat loss of MIF expression led to a robust induction of a specialized form ofcell death, immunogenic cell death (ICD), in vitro. Together, our data suggests amodel in which MIF expression in the primary tumor dampens the anti-tumor immune response, promoting tumor growth.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197702 PMCID: PMC5986154PMID: 29864117 