34. Mol Pharm. 2018 Jun 14. doi: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00217. [Epub ahead ofprint]Codelivery of Paclitaxel and Everolimus at the Optimal Synergistic Ratio: APromising Solution for the Treatment of Breast Cancer.Houdaihed L(1), Evans JC(1), Allen C(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy ,University of Toronto , Toronto M5S 3M2 , Canada.Clinical studies examining the combination of paclitaxel (PTX) and everolimus(EVER), an mTOR inhibitor, have failed to result in significant improvements inefficacy and toxicity in patients with breast cancer (BC), relative to treatment with PTX alone. These disappointing clinical trial results have been attributedto poorly designed preclinical studies using the combination of PTX and EVER aswell as the significantly different pharmacokinetic profiles of the two drugs. Inthe current work, the potential synergy between PTX and EVER was examined in apanel of six BC cell lines that differ in terms of their molecular subtype anddrug sensitivity. Polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) were used to encapsulate PTX and EVER at an optimal synergistic ratio to achieve specific, colocalized delivery ofthe combination therapy in BC cell lines. Combinations of PTX and EVER(especially at relatively high doses of EVER) resulted in pronounced synergy inall BC cell lines evaluated. The optimal molar ratio of PTX:EVER was determinedto be 1:0.5. The combination was delivered to BC cells at the synergistic ratiovia encapsulation within polymeric NPs formed from the poly(ethylene glycol)-b-poly(lactide- co-glycolide) (PEG- b-PLGA) copolymer. The NPs had an averagediameter of less than 100 nm and were capable of in vitro retention of theencapsulated PTX and EVER at the optimal synergistic molar ratio for over 7 days.Cytotoxicity data demonstrated that PTX+EVER-loaded NPs were significantly lesscytotoxic than the free drug combination in MCF-7 and SKBR3 BC cell linesfollowing 72 h, suggesting that PTX+EVER-loaded NPs remain stable and retain the drug combination loaded within the core after 72 h. The uptake of FITC-labeledNPs in SKBR3 cells was evaluated by flow cytometry, with approximately 41% ofcells demonstrating detectable fluorescence after 24 h of exposure. The thorough and systematic approach used in this study to determine and evaluate asynergistic PTX:EVER ratio in conjunction with a potentially promising deliveryvector for the drug combination could offer a future clinical benefit forpatients with BC.DOI: 10.1021/acs.molpharmaceut.8b00217 PMID: 29863881 