70. Comp Med. 2018 Jun 6. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-17-000107. [Epub ahead of print]Effect of Daytime Blue-enriched LED Light on the Nighttime Circadian MelatoninInhibition of Hepatoma 7288CTC Warburg Effect and Progression.Dauchy RT, Wren-Dail MA, Dupepe LM, Hill SM, Xiang S, Anbalagan M, Belancio VP,Dauchy EM, Blask DE.Liver cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Metabolicpathways within the liver and liver cancersare highly regulated by the centralcircadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). Daily light and dark cycles regulate the SCN-driven pineal production of the circadian anticancer hormonemelatonin and temporally coordinate circadianrhythms of metabolism and physiologyin mammals. In previous studies, we demonstrated that melatonin suppresseslinoleicacid metabolism and the Warburg effect (aerobic glycolysis)in humanbreast cancer xenografts and that blue-enriched light(465-485 nm) fromlight-emitting diode lighting at daytime (bLAD) amplifies nighttime circadianmelatonin levels in ratsby 7-fold over cool white fluorescent (CWF) lighting.Here we tested the hypothesis that daytime exposure of tissue-isolatedMorrishepatoma 7288CTC-bearing male rats to bLAD amplifies the nighttime melatoninsignal to enhance the inhibition oftumor growth. Compared with rats housed under a 12:12-h light:dark cycle in CWF light, rats in bLAD light evinced a 7-foldhigher peak plasma melatonin level at the mid-dark phase; in addition, highmelatonin levels were prolonged until 4 h intothe light phase. After implantationof tissue-isolated hepatoma 7288CTC xenografts, tumor growth rates were markedly delayed,and tumor cAMP levels, LA metabolism, the Warburg effect, and growthsignaling activities were decreased in rats inbLAD compared with CWF daytimelighting. These data show that the increased nighttime circadian melatonin levelsdueto bLAD exposure decreases hepatoma metabolic, signaling, and proliferativeactivities beyond what occurs after normalmelatonin signaling under CWF light.DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-17-000107 PMID: 29875029 