39. J Pathol. 2018 Jun 7. doi: 10.1002/path.5104. [Epub ahead of print]The iron chelator deferasirox synergises with chemotherapy to treattriple-negative breast cancers.Tury S(1), Assayag F(2), Bonin F(1), Chateau-Joubert S(3), Servely JL(3)(4),Vacher S(1), Becette V(5), Caly M(6), Rapinat A(7), Gentien D(7), de la GrangeP(8), Schnitzler A(1), Lallemand F(1), Marangoni E(2), Bièche I(1)(9), CallensC(1).Author information: (1)Pharmacogenomic Unit, Genetics Department, Curie Institute, PSL ResearchUniversity, Paris, France.(2)Laboratory of Preclinical Investigations, Translational Research Department,Curie Institute, PSL Research University Paris, France.(3)BioPôle Alfort, National Veterinary School of Alfort, Maisons-Alfort, France.(4)PHASE Department, INRA, Paris, France.(5)Department of Biopathology, Curie Institute, René Huguenin Hospital,Saint-Cloud, France.(6)Department of Biopathology, Curie Institute, PSL Research University, Paris,France.(7)Genomics Platform, Translational Research Department, Curie Institute, PSLResearch University, Paris, France.(8)GenoSplice, Paris, France.(9)EA7331, Paris Descartes University, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Faculty ofPharmaceutical and Biological Sciences, Paris, France.To ensure their high proliferation rate, tumour cells have an iron metabolicdisorder causing them to have increased iron needs, making them more susceptible to iron deprivation. This vulnerability could be a therapeutic target. In breast cancers, the development of new therapeutic approaches is urgently needed forpatients with triple-negative tumours, which frequently relapse afterchemotherapy and suffer from a lack of targeted therapies. In this study, wedemonstrated that deferasirox (DFX) synergises with standard chemotherapeuticagents such as doxorubicin, cisplatin and carboplatin to inhibit cellproliferation and induce apoptosis and autophagy in triple-negative breast cancer(TNBC) cells. Moreover, the combination of DFX with doxorubicin andcyclophosphamide delayed recurrences in breast cancer patient-derived xenografts without increasing the side-effects of chemotherapies alone or altering theglobal iron storage of mice. Antitumour synergy of DFX and doxorubicin seems toinvolve downregulation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase and nuclear factor-κBpathways. Iron deprivation in combination with chemotherapy could thus help toimprove the effectiveness of chemotherapy in TNBC patients without increasingtoxicity. Copyright © 2018 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Copyright © 2018 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/path.5104 PMID: 29876931 