143. Lymphat Res Biol. 2018 Jun 5. doi: 10.1089/lrb.2017.0068. [Epub ahead of print]An Assessment of the Relationship Between Abdominal Obesity and the Severity ofUpper Extremity Lymphedema.Yoon JA(1), Shin YB(1), Shin MJ(1), Yun RY(1), Kim KY(2), Song YS(3), Bae Y(4),Lee S(4), Jung Y(4), Lee SH(5).Author information: (1)1 Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Pusan National University School ofMedicine and Biomedical Research Institute, Pusan National University Hospital , Busan, Republic of Korea.(2)2 Department of Nuclear Medicine, Pusan National University School of Medicineand Biomedical Research Institute, Pusan National University Hospital , Busan,Republic of Korea.(3)3 Department of Radiology, Pusan National University School of Medicine andBiomedical Research Institute, Pusan National University Hospital , Busan,Republic of Korea.(4)4 Department of Surgery, Pusan National University School of Medicine andBiomedical Research Institute, Pusan National University Hospital , Busan,Republic of Korea.(5)5 Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Pusan National University School ofMedicine and Biomedical Research Institute, Pusan National University Hospital , Busan, Republic of Korea.BACKGROUND: Obesity is one of the well-known initiating and aggravating factorsof lymphedema. Body mass index (BMI) is typically used to define obesity, but in Asian populations, health risks are elevated at lower BMI levels, and abdominalfat may be a better obesity metric. Thus, we assessed the potential associationbetween abdominal obesity and lymphedema severity in postoperative breast cancer patients.METHODS AND RESULTS: Thirty-three women with breast cancer-related lymphedemaparticipated in this study. Arm circumference was measured at four locations per arm to identify the maximal circumference difference (MCD) between the affectedand unaffected sides. All patients underwent lymphoscintigraphy, and wecalculated the quantitative asymmetry index (QAI) of both arms. A computedtomography was also performed to assess abdominal obesity after lymphedema.Abdominal obesity was classified as a visceral fat cross-sectional area largerthan 70 cm2. Fourteen women (42%) were obese (BMI ≥25 kg/m2), and 18 women (54%) had increased abdominal fat. BMI obesity and abdominal obesity were significantlycorrelated, but five patients were classified with abdominal obesity, despite aBMI below 25 kg/m2. The mean arm circumference difference was 2.8 ± 2.4 cm.Decreased axillary QAI was significantly correlated with obesity, and increasedarm edema (MCD ≥2 cm) was significantly correlated with abdominal obesity.CONCLUSION: Abdominal obesity was significantly correlated with increased MCD andshould be considered along with obesity as an aggravating factor for lymphedemaseverity.DOI: 10.1089/lrb.2017.0068 PMID: 29870284 