4. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jun 5. pii: S1742-7061(18)30339-8. doi:10.1016/j.actbio.2018.06.003. [Epub ahead of print]Hybrid collagen alginate hydrogel as a platform for 3D tumor spheroid invasion.Liu C(1), Lewin Mejia D(1), Chiang B(1), Luker KE(1), Luker GD(2).Author information: (1)Center for Molecular Imaging, Department of Radiology, University of Michigan Medical School, 109 Zina Pitcher Place, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2200, United States.(2)Center for Molecular Imaging, Department of Radiology, University of Michigan Medical School, 109 Zina Pitcher Place, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2200, United States; Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan Medical School,United States; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan Medical School, United States. Electronic address: gluker@med.umich.edu.Extracellular matrix regulates hallmark features of cancer through biochemicaland mechanical signals, although mechanistic understanding of these processesremains limited by lack of models that recreate physiology of tumors. Totissue-engineer models that recapitulate three-dimensional architecture andsignaling in tumors, there is a pressing need for new materials permittingflexible control of mechanical and biophysical features. We developed a hybridhydrogel system composed of collagen and alginate to model tumor environments in breast cancer and other malignancies. Material properties of the hydrogel,including stiffness, microstructure and porosimetry, encompass parameters presentin normal organs and tumors. The hydrogel possesses a well-organized, homogenous microstructure with adjustable mechanical stiffness and excellent permeability.Upon embedding multicellular tumor spheroids, we constructed a 3D tumor invasion model showing follow-the-leader migration with fibroblasts leading invasion ofcancer cells similar to in vivo. We also demonstrated effects of CXCL12-CXCR4signaling, a pathway implicated in tumor progression and metastasis, in adual-tumor spheroid invasion model in 3D hydrogels. These studies establish a newhydrogel platform with material properties that can be tuned to investigateeffects of environmental conditions on tumor progression, which will advancefuture studies of cancer cell invasion and response to therapy.STATEMENT OFSIGNIFICANCE: Our manuscript describes a novel design of hybrid hydrogel systemcomposed of collagen and alginate modeling 3D tumor environments in breastcancer. The hydrogel possesses a well-organized, homogenous microstructure withadjustable mechanical stiffness. Upon embedding tumor spheroids, we successfully showed a 3D tumor invasion model showing follow-the-leader migration withfibroblasts leading invasion of cancer cells similar to in vivo. To the best ofour knowledge, this is the first study showing two spheroids invadesimultaneously and forming bridge-like connection and effects of chemicalgradients in 3D hydrogel environment. This research provides a new model fortumor-stromal interactions in cancer cell migration and establishes a novelhydrogel system for analyzing physical and biochemical signals regulating cancer progression and response to therapy.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.06.003 PMID: 29879553 