28. Cancer. 2018 Jun 7. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31541. [Epub ahead of print]Examining urban and rural differences in perceived timeliness of care amongcancer patients: A SEER-CAHPS study.Mollica MA(1), Weaver KE(2), McNeel TS(3), Kent EE(1).Author information: (1)Healthcare Delivery Research Program, Division of Cancer Control andPopulation Sciences, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.(2)Department of Social Sciences and Health Policy, Wake Forest School ofMedicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.(3)Information Management Services, Inc, Rockville, Maryland.BACKGROUND: Rural cancer patients often have challenges in accessing qualitycare. This study examined associations between the place of residence at cancerdiagnosis (urban vs rural) and patient ratings of access to care among oldercancer survivors participating in Medicare-managed care.METHODS: Using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results -Consumer Assessmentof Healthcare Providers and Systems (SEER-CAHPS) linked data, which included SEERdata and Medicare CAHPS patient experience surveys, this study identified urban(n = 6140) and rural Medicare beneficiaries (n = 686) aged ≥ 65 years with abreast, lung, colorectal, or prostate cancer diagnosis who had completed aMedicare CAHPS survey between 1998 and 2013. Multivariable models examinedassociations between survivor residence at the time of diagnosis and CAHPSmeasures of timeliness and ease of getting care.RESULTS: Respondents who resided in urban areas (vs rural) at the time of theircancer diagnosis rated their care significantly lower for Getting Care Quickly(b = -2.27; standard error = 0.95; P = .02). Although there were no overallsignificant differences for Getting Needed Care, there was a significantinteraction between race/ethnicity and residence (P = .04): both non-Hispanicblack and Hispanic respondents residing in rural areas rated Getting Needed Care lower than those respondents residing in urban areas.CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to prior studies, these findings suggest that ruralsurvivors report more timely care than those in urban areas, but accessing neededcare may be more challenging for racial/ethnic minority rural survivors. Futureexamination of specific barriers for urban and racial/ethnic minority ruralsurvivors is warranted to ensure equitable access to quality cancer care. Cancer 2018. © 2018 American Cancer Society.© 2018 American Cancer Society.DOI: 10.1002/cncr.31541 PMID: 29878305 