2. Ultraschall Med. 2018 Jun 7. doi: 10.1055/a-0628-6248. [Epub ahead of print]Optoacoustic Imaging Detects Hormone-Related Physiological Changes of BreastParenchyma.Abeyakoon O(1), Morscher S(2), Dalhaus N(2), Ford SJ(2), Mendichovszky IA(3),Manavaki R(1), Wallis M(4), Moyle P(4), Woitek R(1), Patterson A(4), TorheimT(5), Joseph J(5), Gonzalez IQ(5), Bohndiek S(5), Gilbert FJ(1).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom of GreatBritain and Northern Ireland.(2)Research and Development, iThera Medical GmbH, Munich, Germany.(3)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Cambridge University HospitalsNHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United Kingdom of Great Britain and NorthernIreland.(4)Department of Radiology, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.(5)Li Ka Shing Centre, Cancer Research UK Cambridge Research Institute,Cambridge, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.PURPOSE:  Optoacoustic imaging with ultrasound (OPUS) can assess in-vivoperfusion/oxygenation through surrogate measures of oxy, deoxy and totalhemoglobin content in tissues. The primary aim of our study was to evaluate theability of OPUS to detect physiological changes in the breast during themenstrual cycle and to determine qualitative/quantitative metrics of normalparenchymal tissue in pre-/post-menopausal women. The secondary aim was to assessthe technique's repeatability.MATERIALS AND METHODS:  We performed a prospective ethically approved study involunteers using OPUS (700, 800 and 850 nm wavelengths) in theproliferative/follicular and secretory phase of the menstrual cycle. Regions ofinterest (ROIs) were drawn on the most superficial region of fibroglandulartissue and same-day intra-observer repeatability was assessed. We used t-tests tointerrogate differences in the OPUS measurements due to hormonal changes andinterclass correlation coefficients/Bland-Altman plots to evaluate therepeatability of mean ROI signal intensities.RESULTS:  22 pre-menopausal and 8 post-menopausal volunteers were recruited. 21participants underwent repeatability examinations. OPUS intensity values weresignificantly higher (p < 0.0001) at all excitation wavelengths in the secretory compared to the proliferative/follicular phase. Post-menopausal volunteers showedsimilar optoacoustic values to the proliferative/follicular phase ofpre-menopausal volunteers. The repeatability of the technique was comparable toother handheld ultrasound modalities.CONCLUSION:  OPUS detects changes in perfusion/vascularity related to themenstrual cycle and menopausal status of breast parenchyma.Publisher: ZIEL:  Optoakustische Bildgebung mittels Ultraschall (OPUS) erlaubtdie in-vivo Beurteilung von Perfusion/Oxygenierung mittels Surrogatmessungen von Oxy-, Deoxy- und totalem Hämoglobingehalt im Gewebe. Das vorrangige Ziel dieserStudie war es zu evaluieren, ob physiologische Veränderungen im Brustparenchymwährend des Menstruationszyklus nachweisbar sind und qualitative sowiequantitative Merkmale normalen Brustparenchyms in prä- und postmenopausalenProbandinnen zu bestimmen. Als weiteres Ziel wurde die Reproduzierbarkeit dieser Technik evaluiert. Die vorliegende prospektive Studie zur Evaluierung von OPUS(700, 800 und 850 nm Wellenlänge) an freiwilligen Probandinnen während derproliferativen/follikulären und sekretorischen Zyklusphasen wurde von der lokalenEthikkommission positive beurteilt. Regions of interest (ROIs) wurden imoberflächlichsten fibroglandulären Gewebe gezeichnet und dieIntraobserver-Reproduzierbarkeit wurde am selben Untersuchungstag beurteilt. UmUnterschiede zwischen OPUS-Messungen in Abhängigkeit von Zyklusphasen zubeurteilen, wurden t-Tests verwendet.Interklassen-Korrelationskoeffizienten/Bland-Altman Plots wurden verwendet um dieReproduzierbarkeit der mittleren ROI Signalintensität zu untersuchen. 22prämenopausale und 8 postmenopausale Probandinnen wurden rekrutiert. 21Probandinnen unterzogen sich Reproduzierbarkeitstests. Unabhängig von derExzitationswellenlänge waren OPUS Intensitätswerte während der sekretorischenPhase signifikant höher (p < 0,0001) als während der proliferativen/follikulären Phase. Die Messwerte in postmenopausalen Probandinnen glichen denenprämenopausaler Probandinnen während der proliferativen/follikulären Phase. DieReproduzierbarkeit dieser Technik glich der anderer Ultraschallhandgeräte. OPUSdetektiert Veränderungen der Perfusion/Vaskularisation des Brustparenchyms inAbhängigkeit von Menstruationszyklus und Menopausenstatus.© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.DOI: 10.1055/a-0628-6248 PMID: 29879743 