7. Am J Pathol. 2018 Aug;188(8):1910-1920. doi: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2018.05.003. Epub2018 Jun 4.Re-Evaluating E-Cadherin and β-Catenin: A Pan-Cancer Proteomic Approach with anEmphasis on Breast Cancer.Borcherding N(1), Cole K(2), Kluz P(3), Jorgensen M(2), Kolb R(4), Bellizzi A(5),Zhang W(6).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City,Iowa; Cancer Biology Graduate Program, College of Medicine, University of Iowa,Iowa City, Iowa; Medical Scientist Training Program, College of Medicine,University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa; Holden Comprehensive Cancer Center, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.(2)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City,Iowa.(3)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City,Iowa; Free Radical and Radiation Biology Program, College of Medicine, Universityof Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.(4)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City,Iowa; Holden Comprehensive Cancer Center, College of Medicine, University ofIowa, Iowa City, Iowa.(5)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City,Iowa; Holden Comprehensive Cancer Center, College of Medicine, University ofIowa, Iowa City, Iowa. Electronic address: andrew-bellizzi@uiowa.edu.(6)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City,Iowa; Cancer Biology Graduate Program, College of Medicine, University of Iowa,Iowa City, Iowa; Medical Scientist Training Program, College of Medicine,University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa; Holden Comprehensive Cancer Center, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa; Free Radical and RadiationBiology Program, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa.Electronic address: weizhou-zhang@uiowa.edu.E-cadherin is conventionally considered to be a good prognostic marker in cancer.The loss of E-cadherin is one of the key hallmarks of epithelial-to-mesenchymaltransition, a biological process that promotes cancer cell invasiveness andmetastasis. Recent evidence has cast doubt on the importance ofepithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in metastasis. The availability ofprotein-level data in the Cancer Genome Atlas allows for the quantitativeanalysis of protein and prognosis. The prognostic values of E-cadherin andβ-catenin were revisited across 19 cancer types, and high E-cadherin was found tocorrelate with good prognosis in most cancers. Conversely, higher E-cadherin and β-catenin correlated with shorter survival in invasive breast carcinoma.Stratifying breast cancers by histologic subtype revealed that the poor prognosisof E-cadherin and β-catenin proteins was characteristic of infiltrating ductal,but not lobular, carcinomas. To further corroborate the protein findings andexamine cellular localization, immunohistochemistry was used for E-cadherin andβ-catenin in 163 breast patient samples from the Iowa cohort. Most previousstudies showing that reduced or absent E-cadherin and β-catenin was inverselyassociated with tumor stages in ductal carcinomas were confirmed. Taken together,these results lead us to question the prognostic values of E-cadherin andβ-catenin in ductal carcinomas and indicate a complicated role of E-cadherin and β-catenin in breast cancer progression.Copyright © 2018 American Society for Investigative Pathology. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ajpath.2018.05.003 PMID: 29879416 