75. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jun 3. pii: S1742-7061(18)30329-5. doi:10.1016/j.actbio.2018.05.050. [Epub ahead of print]A targeted nanoplatform co-delivering chemotherapeutic and antiangiogenic drugsas a tool to reverse multidrug resistance in breast cancer.Tian F(1), Dahmani FZ(1), Qiao J(1), Ni J(1), Xiong H(1), Liu T(1), Zhou J(1),Yao J(2).Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines and Jiangsu Key Laboratory ofDruggability of Biopharmaceuticals, Department of Pharmaceutics, ChinaPharmaceutical University, 24 Tongjiaxiang, Nanjing 210009, China.(2)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines and Jiangsu Key Laboratory ofDruggability of Biopharmaceuticals, Department of Pharmaceutics, ChinaPharmaceutical University, 24 Tongjiaxiang, Nanjing 210009, China. Electronicaddress: yaojing@cpu.edu.cn.Several obstacles are currently impeding the successful treatment of breastcancer, namely impaired drug accumulation into the tumor site, toxicity to normalcells and narrow therapeutic index of chemotherapy, multidrug resistance (MDR)and the metastatic spread of cancer cells through the blood and lymphaticvessels. In this regard, we designed a novel multifunctional nano-sized drugdelivery system based on LyP-1 peptide-modified low-molecular-weightheparin-quercetin conjugate (PLQ). This nanosystem was developed for targetedco-delivery of multiple anticancer drugs to p32-overexpressing tumor cells andperitumoral lymphatic vessels, using LyP-1 peptide as active targeting ligand,with the aim to achieve a targeted combinatorial chemo/angiostatic therapy andMDR reversal. The cellular uptake of PLQ nanoparticles by p32-overexpressingbreast cancer cells was significantly higher than nonfunctionalizednanoparticles. Besides, the anti-angiogenic activity of PLQ nanoparticles wasproven by the effective inhibition of the bFGF-induced neovascularization insubcutaneous Matrigel plugs. More importantly, PLQ/GA nanoparticles with bettertargeting ability toward p32-positive tumors, displayed a high antitumor outcome by inhibition of tumor cells proliferation and angiogenesis. Immunohistochemistryand western blot assay showed that PLQ/GA nanoparticles significantly disruptedthe lymphatic formation of tumor, and inhibited the P-glycoprotein (P-gp)expression in MCF-7 tumor cells, respectively. In conclusion, PLQ/GAnanoparticles provide a synergistic strategy for effective targeted co-deliveryof chemotherapeutic and antiangiogenic agents and reversing MDR and metastasis inbreast cancer.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Herein, we successfully developed anovel amphiphilic nanomaterial, LyP-1-LMWH-Qu (PLQ) conjugate, consisting of atumor-targeting moiety LyP-1, a hydrophobic quercetin (a multidrug resistance[MDR]-reversing drug) inner core, and a hydrophilic low-molecular-weight heparin (an antiangiogenic agent) outer shell for encapsulating and delivering ahydrophobic chemotherapeutic agent (gambogic acid). This versatile nanoplatformwith multiple targeted features, i.e., dual chemo/angiostatic effects,destruction ability of the peritumoral lymphatic vessels, and reversal of MDR,resulted in a significantly stronger antitumor efficacy and lower toxic sideeffect than those of nontargeted nanoparticles and the free drug solution.Therefore, this versatile nanosystem might provide a novel insight for thetreatment and palliation of breast cancer by targeted co-delivery ofchemo/antiangiogenic agents and reversing MDR and metastasis.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.05.050 PMID: 29874597 