34. J Pathol. 2018 Jun 7. doi: 10.1002/path.5105. [Epub ahead of print]BRCA1-associated mammary tumourigenesis is dependent on oestrogen rather thanprogesterone signalling.van de Ven M(1), Liu X(1), van der Burg E(1), Klarenbeek S(2), Alexi X(3), Zwart W(3), Dijcks F(4), Bouwman P(1), Jonkers J(1).Author information: (1)Division of Molecular Pathology, Oncode Institute, The Netherlands CancerInstitute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(2)Experimental Animal Pathology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam,The Netherlands.(3)Division of Oncogenomics, Oncode Institute, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(4)Synthon Biopharmaceuticals B.V, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.Hereditary breast cancers in BRCA1 mutation carriers are mostly oestrogenreceptor α (ERα)-negative and progesterone receptor (PR)-negative; however,hormone depletion via bilateral oophorectomy does result in a marked reduction inbreast cancer risk, suggesting that BRCA1-associated breast tumourigenesis isdependent on hormone signalling. We used genetically engineered mouse models todetermine the individual influences of ERα and PR signalling on the developmentof BRCA1-deficient breast cancer. In line with the human data, BRCA1-deficientmouse mammary tumours are ERα-negative, and bilateral ovariectomy leads toabrogation of mammary tumour development. Hormonal replacement experiments inovariectomized mice showed that BRCA1-deficient mammary tumour formation ispromoted by oestrogen but not by progesterone. In line with these data, mammarytumourigenesis was significantly delayed by the selective ERα downregulatorfulvestrant, but not by the selective PR antagonist Org33628. Together, ourresults illustrate that BRCA1-associated tumourigenesis is dependent on oestrogensignalling rather than on progesterone signalling, and call into question theutility of PR antagonists as a tumour prevention strategy for BRCA1 mutationcarriers. Copyright © 2018 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Copyright © 2018 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/path.5105 PMID: 29877575 