141. Menopause. 2018 Jul;25(7):837-847. doi: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001138.The role of androgens in the treatment of genitourinary syndrome of menopause(GSM): International Society for the Study of Women's Sexual Health (ISSWSH)expert consensus panel review.Simon JA(1), Goldstein I(2), Kim NN(3), Davis SR(4), Kellogg-Spadt S(5),Lowenstein L(6), Pinkerton JV(7), Stuenkel CA(8), Traish AM(9), Archer DF(10),Bachmann G(11), Goldstein AT(12), Nappi RE(13), Vignozzi L(14).Author information: (1)IntimMedicine Specialists, George Washington University, Washington, DC.(2)Sexual Medicine, Alvarado Hospital, San Diego, CA.(3)Institute for Sexual Medicine, San Diego, CA.(4)Women's Health Research Program, School of Public Health and PreventiveMedicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Vic, Australia.(5)Center for Pelvic Medicine, Rosemont, PA.(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Rambam Health Care Campus, TechnionSchool of Medicine, Haifa, Israel.(7)The North American Menopause Society.(8)University of California, San Diego, School of Medicine, La Jolla, CA.(9)Department of Urology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA.(10)CONRAD Clinical Research Center, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology,Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, VA.(11)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, RutgersRobert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, NJ.(12)Center for Vulvovaginal Disorders.(13)Research Center for Reproductive Medicine, Gynecological Endocrinology andMenopause, IRCCS S. Matteo Foundation, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.(14)Gynecological Endocrinology Research Unit, Sexual Medicine and AndrologyUnit, Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences, University of Florence, Florence, Italy.OBJECTIVE: The objective of this consensus document is to broaden the perspectiveon clinical management of genitourinary syndrome of menopause to includeandrogens.METHODS: A modified Delphi method was used to reach consensus among the 14international panelists representing multiple disciplines and societies.RESULTS: Menopause-related genitourinary symptoms affect over 50% of midlife and older women. These symptoms have a marked impact on sexual functioning, dailyactivities, emotional well-being, body image, and interpersonal relations.Tissues in the genitourinary system are both androgen and estrogen-dependent. Theclitoris, vestibule, including minor and major vestibular glands, urethra,anterior vaginal wall, periurethral tissue, and pelvic floor areandrogen-responsive. Historically, treatment of postmenopausal genitourinarysymptoms involved both androgens and estrogens. This subsequently gave rise topredominantly estrogen-based therapies. More recently, double-blind,placebo-controlled clinical trials have demonstrated that local vaginaldehydroepiandrosterone improves symptoms in postmenopausal women, includingmoderate to severe dyspareunia. Limited data suggest that systemic testosteronetreatment may improve vaginal epithelial health and blood flow. Open-labelstudies that have used high doses of intravaginal testosterone in the presence ofaromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer have resulted in supraphysiologicalserum testosterone levels, and have been reported to lower vaginal pH, improvethe vaginal maturation index, and reduce dyspareunia.CONCLUSIONS: Vaginal dehydroepiandrosterone, hypothesized to enhance localproduction of both androgen and estrogen, is effective for the management ofdyspareunia in menopause. Vaginal testosterone offers potential as a treatmentfor genitourinary syndrome of menopause, but more studies are needed.DOI: 10.1097/GME.0000000000001138 PMID: 29870471 