Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict ofinterest.108. Oncotarget. 2018 May 15;9(37):24837-24856. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.24984.eCollection 2018 May 15.B-glucans from Grifola frondosa and Ganoderma lucidum in breast cancer: anexample of complementary and integrative medicine.Rossi P(1), Difrancia R(2), Quagliariello V(3), Savino E(4), Tralongo P(5),Randazzo CL(6), Berretta M(7).Author information: (1)Department of Biology and Biotechnology "L. Spallanzani", University of Pavia,Italy.(2)Gruppo Oncologico Ricercatori Italiani, GORI onlus, Pordenone, Italy.(3)Department of Abdominal Oncology, National Cancer Institute, IRCCS -Foundation G. Pascale, Naples, Italy.(4)Department of Earth and Environmental Science, University of Pavia, Italy.(5)Oncology Division Umberto I Hospital, Siracusa, Italy.(6)Department of Agricultural, Food and Environment, University of Catania,Italy.(7)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Institute, IRCCS, Aviano (PN),Italy.Culinary and medicinal mushrooms are widely used in Asian countries, both asdietary supplements and as nutraceutical foods. They have recently become popularin Europe, as well, for their nutritional and health benefits. In particular,epidemiological studies conducted in Asia suggest that mushroom intake, together with other phytotherapy substances, protects against cancer, specificallygastrointestinal (GI) and breast cancers. Most of the data come from in vitrostudies and in vivo experimental animal models. Therefore, in order to translate the updated knowledge to clinical research (i.e., from bench to bedside) asystematic translational research program should be initiated. Future randomized controlled trials comparing the effects of G. frondosa and G. lucidum onconventional treatment outcomes are warranted. The purpose of this review was to describe the emerging mechanisms of action of the mushrooms' anticancer functionswhich makes their use in clinical practice so promising. Clinical effects ofmycotherapy (specifically, the use of Ganoderma lucidum and Grifola frondosa) on long-term survival, tumor response, host immune functions, inflammation, and QoL in cancer patients were also addressed. Adverse events associated withmycotherapy were also investigated. Emerging data point to a potential role of G.lucidum for modulating the carcinogenic potential of GI microbiota, whichsuggests a new complementary and integrated approach to breast cancer treatment.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.24984 PMCID: PMC5973856PMID: 29872510 