94. J Digit Imaging. 2018 Jun 5. doi: 10.1007/s10278-018-0075-x. [Epub ahead ofprint]Pattern Recognition and Size Prediction of Microcalcification Based on PhysicalCharacteristics by Using Digital Mammogram Images.Jothilakshmi GR(1), Raaza A(2), Rajendran V(3), Sreenivasa Varma Y(4), GuruNirmal Raj R(5).Author information: (1)Department of ECE, Vels University, Chennai, India. jothi.se@velsuniv.ac.in.(2)Vels University, Chennai, India.(3)Department of ECE, Vels University, Chennai, India.(4)Varma Nursing Home and Research Center, Pallikaranai, Chennai, India.(5)Department of ECE, Lakshmiammal Polytechnique College, Kovilpatti, Tamil Nadu,India.Breast cancer is one of the life-threatening cancers occurring in women. Inrecent years, from the surveys provided by various medical organizations, it has become clear that the mortality rate of females is increasing owing to the latedetection of breast cancer. Therefore, an automated algorithm is needed toidentify the early occurrence of microcalcification, which would assistradiologists and physicians in reducing the false predictions via imageprocessing techniques. In this work, we propose a new algorithm to detect thepattern of a microcalcification by calculating its physical characteristics. The considered physical characteristics are the reflection coefficient and massdensity of the binned digital mammogram image. The calculation of physicalcharacteristics doubly confirms the presence of malignant microcalcification.Subsequently, by interpolating the physical characteristics via thresholding and mapping techniques, a three-dimensional (3D) projection of the region of interest(RoI) is obtained in terms of the distance in millimeter. The size of amicrocalcification is determined using this 3D-projected view. This algorithm is verified with 100 abnormal mammogram images showing microcalcification and 10normal mammogram images. In addition to the size calculation, the proposedalgorithm acts as a good classifier that is used to classify the considered inputimage as normal or abnormal with the help of only two physical characteristics.This proposed algorithm exhibits a classification accuracy of 99%.DOI: 10.1007/s10278-018-0075-x PMID: 29873011 