67. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Jun 7;19(6). pii: E1695. doi: 10.3390/ijms19061695.The Multifaceted Role of STAT3 in Mammary Gland Involution and Breast Cancer.Hughes K(1), Watson CJ(2).Author information: (1)Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Cambridge, Madingley Road,Cambridge CB3 0ES, UK. kh387@cam.ac.uk.(2)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Tennis Court Road, CambridgeCB2 1QP, UK. cjw53@cam.ac.uk.Since seminal descriptions of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) as a signal transducer and transcriptional regulator, which is mostusually activated by phosphorylation of a specific tyrosine residue, a staggeringwealth of research has delineated the key role of this transcription factor as a mediator of mammary gland postlactational regression (involution), andparadoxically, a pro-survival factor in breast cancer and some breast cancer celllines. STAT3 is a critical regulator of lysosomal-mediated programmed cell death (LM-PCD) during mammary gland involution, where uptake of milk fat globules, and consequent high levels of free fatty acids, cause permeabilisation of lysosomalvesicle membranes, in turn leading to cathepsin protease leakage and cell death. A recent proteomic screen of STAT3-induced changes in lysosomal membrane protein components has highlighted wide-ranging effects of STAT3, which may coordinateLM-PCD via the stimulation of endocytosis, intracellular trafficking, andlysosome biogenesis. In parallel, STAT3 regulates the acute phase response duringthe first phase of involution, and it contributes to shaping the pro-tumourigenic'wound healing' signature of the gland during the second phase of this process.STAT3 activation during involution is important across species, although somedifferences exist in the progression of involution in dairy cows. In breastcancer, a number of upstream regulators can lead to STAT3 activation and theeffects of phosphorylation of STAT3 are equally wide-ranging. Recent studies haveimplicated microRNAs in some regulatory pathways. In this review, we will examinethe multifaceted role of STAT3 in mammary gland involution and tumourigenesis,incorporating a review of these fundamental processes in tandem with a discussionof recent developments in this field.DOI: 10.3390/ijms19061695 PMCID: PMC6032292PMID: 29875329 