140. Ideggyogy Sz. 2017 May 30;70(5-6):213-216. doi: 10.18071/isz.70.0213.Case report of a woman with anti amphiphysin positive stiff person syndrome.Manhalter N (1), Györfi O (2), Boros E (3), Bokor M (2), Fazekas F (4), Dénes Z(3), Fabó D (5), Kamondi A (5), Erőss L (6).Author information: (1)Neurological Rehabilitation Center Rosenhügel, Vienna, Austria.(2)Department of Neurology, National Institut of Psychiatry and Addictology NyírôGyula, Budapest, Hungary.(3)National Institute for Medical Rehabilitation, Budapest, Hungary.(4)Department of Neurology, Hungarian Military Hospital, Budapest, Hungary.(5)Department of Neurology, National Institut of Clinical Neuroscience, Budapest,Hungary.(6)Department of Functional Neurosurgery, National Institut of ClinicalNeuroscience, Budapest, Hungary.Stiff person syndrome is a rare neuroimmunological disease, characterized bysevere, involuntary stiffness with superimposed painful muscle spasms, which are worsened by external stimuli. The classical form is associated with high levelsof antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase. One of the variant forms isassociated with antibodies against amphiphysin. This entity is a paraneoplasticsyndrome, caused primarily by breast cancer, secondarily by lung cancer.Symptomatic therapy of anti amphiphysin positive stiff person syndrome includestreatment with benzodiazepines and baclofen (including intrathecal baclofentherapy). The effect of immunological therapies is controversial. Treatment ofthe underlying cancer may be very effective. In this report, we describe a 68year old female presenting with an unusally rapidly developing anti amphiphysinpositive stiff person syndrome, which was associated with breast cancer. Herpainful spasms abolished after intrathecal baclofen treatment was initiated. Her condition improved spontaneously and significantly after cancer treatment, which enabled to start her complex rehabilitation and the simultaneous dose reductionof the intrathecal baclofen. The bedridden patient improved to using a rollatorwalker and the baclofen pump could be removed 18 monthes after breast surgery.This highlights the importance of cancer screening and treatment in antiamphiphysin positive stiff person syndrome cases.Publisher: A stiff-person szindróma ritka neuroimmunológiai betegség, melyetsúlyos, akaratlan izommerevség és fájdalmas izomgörcsök jellemeznek, melyek külsőingerek hatására fokozódnak. A betegség klasszikus formájában aglutamát-dekarboxiláz elleni antitestszint magas. A variánsformák egyikébenam-phiphysin elleni antitestek mutathatók ki. Ez a kórkép egy paraneoplasztikusszindróma, melynek hátterében leggyakrabban emlőrák, ritkábban tüdőrák áll. Azantiamphiphysin-pozitív stiff-person szindróma tüneti kezelései közé tartozik abenzodiazepin- és a baclofenterápia (beleértve az intrathecalis baclofenterápiát is). Az immunológiai kezelések hatása ellentmondásos. A társuló daganatosbetegség terápiája igen hatásos a kórkép kezelésében. Ebben az esettanulmánybanegy 68 éves nőbetegről számolunk be, akinél szokatlanul gyorsan alakult ki azantiamphiphysin-pozitív stiff-person szindróma, mely emlőtumorral társult. Abeteg fájdalmas spasmusai az intrathecalis baclofenterápia hatására megszűntek.Állapota daganatterápiát követően spontán és jelentősen javult. Ez lehetővé tetteegy komplex rehabilitációs kezelés megkezdését és ezzel egyidejűleg azintrathecalis baclofen adagjának csökkentését. A korábban ágyhoz kötött betegrollátorral járóképessé vált és az emlőtumorműtétet követően 18 hónap múlva abaclofenpumpa eltávolításra került. Ez felhívja a figyelmet a daganatszűrés éskezelés fontosságára antiamphiphysin-pozitív stiff-person szindróma esetén.DOI: 10.18071/isz.70.0213 PMID: 29870637 