68. JCI Insight. 2018 Jun 7;3(11). pii: 97503. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.97503. [Epub ahead of print]A systems immunology approach identifies the collective impact of 5 miRs in Th2inflammation.Kılıç A(1), Santolini M(2)(3)(4), Nakano T(1), Schiller M(5), Teranishi M(6),Gellert P(7), Ponomareva Y(8), Braun T(6), Uchida S(9), Weiss ST(3), Sharma A(3),Renz H(1).Author information: (1)Institute of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiochemistry, Molecular Diagnostics,Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany.(2)Center for Complex Network Research, Department of Physics, NortheasternUniversity, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(3)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Channing Division of Network Medicine,Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(4)Center for Cancer Systems Biology (CCSB) and Department of Cancer Biology,Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(5)Clinic for Dermatology and Venereology, University Medical Center Rostock,Rostock, Germany.(6)Max Planck Institute for Heart and Lung Research, Bad Nauheim, Germany.(7)Breast Cancer Now Research Centre at The Institute of Cancer Research, London,United Kingdom.(8)Institute of Cardiovascular Regeneration, Centre for Molecular Medicine,Goethe- University Frankfurt, Frankfurt Germany.(9)Cardiovascular Innovation Institute, University of Louisville, Louisville,Kentucky, USA.Allergic asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease dominated by a CD4+ T helper 2 (Th2) cell signature. The immune response amplifies in self-enforcing loops,promoting Th2-driven cellular immunity and leaving the host unable to terminateinflammation. Posttranscriptional mechanisms, including microRNAs (miRs), arepivotal in maintaining immune homeostasis. Since an altered expression of variousmiRs has been associated with T cell-driven diseases, including asthma, wehypothesized that miRs control mechanisms ensuring Th2 stability and maintenance in the lung. We isolated murine CD4+ Th2 cells from allergic inflamed lungs andprofiled gene and miR expression. Instead of focusing on the magnitude of miRdifferential expression, here we addressed the secondary consequences for the setof molecular interactions in the cell, the interactome. We developed the Impactof Differential Expression Across Layers, a network-based algorithm to prioritizedisease-relevant miRs based on the central role of their targets in the molecularinteractome. This method identified 5 Th2-related miRs (mir27b, mir206, mir106b, mir203, and mir23b) whose antagonization led to a sharp reduction of the Th2phenotype. Overall, a systems biology tool was developed and validated,highlighting the role of miRs in Th2-driven immune response. This result offerspotentially novel approaches for therapeutic interventions.DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.97503 PMID: 29875322 