Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript and theirinstitution have the following competing interests: Oregon Health & ScienceUniversity, W.N., W.Y., and J.W.G. have a significant financial interest in PDXPharmaceuticals, LLC, a company that may have a commercial interest in theresults of this research and technology. This potential personal andinstitutional conflict of interest has been reviewed and managed by Oregon Health& Science University. This commercial affiliation does not alter our adherence toPLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.15. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Jun;97(23):e10900. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010900.Primary ovarian small cell carcinoma of pulmonary type with coexistingendometrial carcinoma in a breast cancer patient receiving tamoxifen: A casereport and literature review.Yin L(1), Li J(2), Wei Y(1), Ma D(3)(4), Sun Y(5), Sun Y(4).Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, Huzhou Central Hospital, Huzhou.(2)The Central Sterile Supply Department, Affiliated Hospital of Shandong Academyof Medical Sciences.(3)School of Medicine and Life Sciences, University of Jinan-Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences.(4)The Fourth Surgical Department, Shandong Cancer Hospital Affiliated toShandong University, Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan.(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Zhucheng People's Hospital of ShandongProvince, Zhucheng, China.RATIONALE: Small cell carcinoma of the ovary (SCCO) is a rare and aggressiveextra-pulmonary variant of small cell tumors of uncertain histogenesis. Thepathogenesis and optimal treatment of SCCO is unclear. We present a very rarecase of a synchronous primary ovarian small cell carcinoma and endometrioidadenocarcinoma of the uterus in a patient after 2 years of tamoxifen treatmentfor breast cancer. This is the first such report in the English literature.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 46-year-old woman had a history of left breast cancer thatwas treated with a simple mastectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy in 2013. The post-operative pathology was invasive ductal carcinoma of the left breast. shehad been taking tamoxifen for 2 years. The patient underwent an exploratorylaparotomy to reduce the tumor burden, improve bowel compression symptoms, andpromote defecation in 2015. The post-operative pathology revealed a rare,simultaneous occurrence of two tumors (endometrial adenocarcinoma and SCCO[pulmonary type]).DIAGNOSES: Primary ovarian small cell carcinoma of pulmonary type with coexistingendometrial carcinoma in a breast cancer patient.INTERVENTIONS: The patient received 3 courses of chemotherapy after operation.The effect was not apparent and the general health status was poor.OUTCOMES: The patient died of progressive disease 7 months post-operatively.LESSONS: The present case suggests that tamoxifen use might be among manyetiologic factors in SCCO development. Despite its rarity, SCCO requires a highdegree of attention in clinical work because it is an aggressive tumor that has apoor prognosis.DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010900 PMCID: PMC5999514PMID: 29879027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]