200. Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act. 2018 Jun 7;15(1):48. doi: 10.1186/s12966-018-0680-6.Physical activity programming and counseling preferences among cancer survivors: a systematic review.Wong JN(1), McAuley E(1), Trinh L(2).Author information: (1)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois atUrbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.(2)Faculty of Kinesiology and Physical Education, University of Toronto, 55Harbord Street, Toronto, ON, M5S 2W6, Canada. linda.trinh@utoronto.ca.BACKGROUND: Physical activity (PA) participation and adherence among cancersurvivors is low, despite research indicating numerous physical, psychologicaland emotional health benefits of exercise. Tailoring exercise programs specificto the PA preferences in cancer survivors has merit for increasing PAparticipation and adherence to accrue these benefits. This systematic reviewidentifies and differentiates PA programming and counseling preferences of adult cancer survivors across various cancer survivor groups.METHODS: PubMed, SPORTDiscus, Scopus, PsycINFO, EMBASE, Web of Science and CINAHLwere electronically searched (inception to Oct 2017) and articles were identifiedusing PRISMA guidelines. Two reviewers independently assessed identified articlesto determine eligibility and then individually performed a quality assessment on all final studies. Extracted and analyzed data included participantcharacteristics, interest in exercise counseling and programming, as well asspecific exercise and counseling preferences (e.g. location, timing, intensity).RESULTS: Forty-one articles were included in this systematic review. Most studiesassessed mixed cancer survivor groups or breast cancer survivors. Most cancersurvivors felt able and interested in participating in a PA program, thoughstarting a PA program after or before treatment was preferred. Walking was thestrongest PA modality preference, and most cancer survivors preferred moderateintensity PA. Cancer survivors also indicated preferences for home-based PA that could take place in the morning. Slight preferences were found towards physicalactivity counseling delivered by a fitness expert from a cancer center. Bothquantitative and qualitative studies were found to be of moderate to high qualitybased on the Appraisal Tool for Cross-Sectional Studies (AXIS) and theConsolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research (COREQ), respectively.CONCLUSION: Cancer survivors have an interest in participating in PA programswith walking as the primary modality. Additionally, morning-based PA programsthat can be tapered to home-based programs are desirable. However, there was widevariation in other PA preference variables, suggesting multiple program optionswould be beneficial. Many cancer survivors felt interested and able toparticipate in PA, and therefore designing PA programs that are tailored tocancer survivors is integral for optimizing recruitment and adherence, as well asenhancing health outcomes in cancer survivors.DOI: 10.1186/s12966-018-0680-6 PMCID: PMC5992647PMID: 29879993 