157. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2018 May 24;6:66. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2018.00066.eCollection 2018.Engineering Breast Cancer Microenvironments and 3D Bioprinting.Belgodere JA(1), King CT(1), Bursavich JB(1), Burow ME(2), Martin EC(1), JungJP(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, Louisiana StateUniversity, Baton Rouge, LA, United States.(2)Department of Medicine, Section Hematology/Oncology, Tulane University, NewOrleans, LA, United States.The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a critical cue to direct tumorigenesis andmetastasis. Although two-dimensional (2D) culture models have been widelyemployed to understand breast cancer microenvironments over the past severaldecades, the 2D models still exhibit limited success. Overwhelming evidencesupports that three dimensional (3D), physiologically relevant culture models arerequired to better understand cancer progression and develop more effectivetreatment. Such platforms should include cancer-specific architectures, relevant physicochemical signals, stromal-cancer cell interactions, immune components,vascular components, and cell-ECM interactions found in patient tumors. Thisreview briefly summarizes how cancer microenvironments (stromal component,cell-ECM interactions, and molecular modulators) are defined and what emergingtechnologies (perfusable scaffold, tumor stiffness, supporting cells withintumors and complex patterning) can be utilized to better mimic native-like breastcancer microenvironments. Furthermore, this review emphasizes biophysicalproperties that differ between primary tumor ECM and tissue sites of metastaticlesions with a focus on matrix modulation of cancer stem cells, providing arationale for investigation of underexplored ECM proteins that could alterpatient prognosis. To engineer breast cancer microenvironments, we categorizedtechnologies into two groups: (1) biochemical factors modulating breast cancercell-ECM interactions and (2) 3D bioprinting methods and its applications tomodel breast cancer microenvironments. Biochemical factors includematrix-associated proteins, soluble factors, ECMs, and synthetic biomaterials.For the application of 3D bioprinting, we discuss the transition of 2D patterningto 3D scaffolding with various bioprinting technologies to implement biophysical cues to model breast cancer microenvironments.DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2018.00066 PMCID: PMC5978274PMID: 29881724 