158. Front Oncol. 2018 May 24;8:161. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00161. eCollection 2018.Mechanisms and Therapy for Cancer Metastasis to the Brain.Franchino F(1), Rudà R(1), Soffietti R(1).Author information: (1)Department of Neuro-Oncology, University and City of Health and ScienceHospital, Turin, Italy.Advances in chemotherapy and targeted therapies have improved survival in cancer patients with an increase of the incidence of newly diagnosed brain metastases(BMs). Intracranial metastases are symptomatic in 60-70% of patients. Magneticresonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium is more sensitive than computedtomography and advanced neuroimaging techniques have been increasingly used inthe detection, treatment planning, and follow-up of BM. Apart from themorphological analysis, the most effective tool for characterizing BM isimmunohistochemistry. Molecular alterations not always reflect those of theprimary tumor. More sophisticated methods of tumor analysis detecting circulatingbiomarkers in fluids (liquid biopsy), including circulating DNA, circulatingtumor cells, and extracellular vesicles, containing tumor DNA and macromolecules (microRNA), have shown promise regarding tumor treatment response andprogression. The choice of therapeutic approaches is guided by prognostic scores (Recursive Partitioning Analysis and diagnostic-specific Graded PrognosticAssessment-DS-GPA). The survival benefit of surgical resection seems limited tothe subgroup of patients with controlled systemic disease and good performancestatus. Leptomeningeal disease (LMD) can be a complication, especially inposterior fossa metastases undergoing a "piecemeal" resection. Radiosurgery ofthe resection cavity may offer comparable survival and local control aspostoperative whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT). WBRT alone is now the treatment ofchoice only for patients with single or multiple BMs not amenable to surgery orradiosurgery, or with poor prognostic factors. To reduce the neurocognitivesequelae of WBRT intensity modulated radiotherapy with hippocampal sparing, andpharmacological approaches (memantine and donepezil) have been investigated. Inthe last decade, a multitude of molecular abnormalities have been discovered.Approximately 33% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumors and epidermal growth factor receptor mutations develop BMs, which are targetable withdifferent generations of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs: gefitinib, erlotinib, afatinib, icotinib, and osimertinib). Other "druggable" alterations seen in up to5% of NSCLC patients are the rearrangements of the "anaplastic lymphoma kinase"gene TKI (crizotinib, ceritinib, alectinib, brigatinib, and lorlatinib). In humanepidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive, breast cancer targeted therapieshave been widely used (trastuzumab, trastuzumab-emtansine,lapatinib-capecitabine, and neratinib). Novel targeted and immunotherapeuticagents have also revolutionized the systemic management of melanoma (ipilimumab, nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and BRAF inhibitors dabrafenib and vemurafenib).DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00161 PMCID: PMC5976742PMID: 29881714 