Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethical StandardsThe authorsdeclare that they have no competing interests.This article does not contain anystudies with human or animal subjects performed by any of the authors.163. Iran J Pharm Res. 2018 Spring;17(2):513-524.Somatostatin Decorated Quantum Dots for Targeting of Somatostatin Receptors.Hafez Abdellatif AA(1), Abdelhafez WA(1), Sarhan HA(2).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy,Al-Azhar University, Assuit, Egypt.(2)Department of Pharmaceutics and Industrial pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy,El-Minia University, El-Minia, Egypt.Due to the unique optical properties like high brightness and narrow emissionbands of Quantum dots, it is used as simple fluorescence materials inbio-imaging, immunoassays, microarrays, and other applications. To easyinvistigate cell lines that overexpressed somtostatin receptors, somatostatin(SST) was conjugated with Quantum dots carrying PEG amine (Qdots-PEG-NH2). Theconjugation of SST to Qdots-PEG-NH2 started with the thiolation of SST usingTraut's reagent. Moreover, the Qdots-PEG-NH2 were subsequently activated by500-fold molar excess of sulfosuccinimidyl 4-(N-maleimidomethyl)cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (sulfo-SMCC) dissolved in phosphate buffer. TheQdots-PEG-NH2-sulfo-SMCC was conjugated to the thiolated-SST to form Qdots-SST.The number of sulfhydryl groups can be controlled by the molar ratio of Traut´sreagent to SST. Thiolation was necessary for the conjugation of SST toQdots-PEG-NH2. This was achieved by reacting the SST with Traut's reagent in a1:1 molar ratio. Ellman's reagent was used to determine the number of sulfhydrylegroups. Furthermore, cellular uptake study on triple negative breast cancer cells(HCC-1806) showed that the numbers of Qdots-SST per cell were signiﬁcantly highercompared to unmodified Qdots-PEG-NH2 when quantified using inductively coupledplasma optical emission spectroscopy (ICP-OES). Moreover, the binding ofQdots-SST to cells can be suppressed by addition of free SST, indicating that thebinding of Qdots-SST to cells is due to receptor-specific binding.PMCID: PMC5985169PMID: 29881409 