135. J Pharm Sci. 2018 Jun 6. pii: S0022-3549(18)30325-3. doi:10.1016/j.xphs.2018.05.020. [Epub ahead of print]PEGylation of Carbonate Apatite Nanoparticles Prevents Opsonin Binding andEnhances Tumor Accumulation of Gemcitabine.Mozar FS(1), Chowdhury EH(2).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, MONASH University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.(2)Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, MONASH University, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia. Electronic address: md.ezharul.hoque@monash.edu.pH sensitives carbonate apatite (CA) has emerged as a targeted delivery vehiclefor chemotherapeutics agent with tremendous potential to increase the effectivityof breast cancer treatment. The major challenge for intravenous delivery ofdrug-incorporated nanoparticles is their rapid opsonization, resulting inaccumulation within the organs of reticuloendothelial system, such as liver andspleen. Therefore, surface modification by polyethylene glycol was implemented toimprove the half-life of drug-particle complexes and enhance their uptake bytarget tissues. A simple, rapid, and sensitive triple quadrupole liquidchromatography-mass spectrometry method was developed and validated forquantification of gemcitabine in plasma, various organs and tumor tissues of micewith breast carcinoma, whereas sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gelelectrophoresis, quadrupole-time of flight liquid chromatography-massspectrometry and analysis by SwissProt.Mus_musculus database were performed forprotein separation, identification, and homology search by comparing the de novo sequence tag. PEGylated CA exhibited almost 6-fold increase in gemcitabineaccumulation in tumor with significant reduction in other organs within 1 h ofintravenous administration, compared to free drug. In addition, plasma drugamount was found to be higher in PEGylated particles, implying their role inprolonging blood circulation time of particle-bound gemcitabine. Investigation ofprotein corona composition demonstrated notable reduction in opsonin interactionsafter PEGylation of CA particles. Overall, the results indicate that thecomposition and dynamics of protein corona subjected to alteration by PEGylation play crucial roles in affecting successful nanoparticle-based targeted deliveryof a cytotoxic drug.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.xphs.2018.05.020 PMID: 29883662 