Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.76. PeerJ. 2018 Jun 5;6:e4940. doi: 10.7717/peerj.4940. eCollection 2018.Molecular attributes and apoptosis-inducing activities of a putative serineprotease isolated from Tiger Milk mushroom (Lignosus rhinocerus) sclerotiumagainst breast cancer cells in vitro.Yap HYY(1), Tan NH(2), Ng ST(3), Tan CS(3), Fung SY(2)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Oral Biology, Faculty of Dentistry, MAHSA University, KualaLumpur, Malaysia.(2)Medicinal Mushroom Research Group, Department of Molecular Medicine, Facultyof Medicine, University of Malaya, Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.(3)Ligno Biotech Sdn Bhd, Balakong Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.(4)Center for Natural Products Research and Drug Discovery, University of Malaya,Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.Background: The highly valued medicinal tiger milk mushroom (also known asLignosus rhinocerus) has the ability to cure numerous ailments. Its anticanceractivities are well explored, and recently a partially purified cytotoxic proteinfraction termed F5 from the mushroom's sclerotial cold water extract consistingmainly of fungal serine proteases was found to exhibit potent selectivecytotoxicity against a human breast adenocarcinoma cell line (MCF7) with IC50value of 3.00 μg/ml. However, characterization of its cell death-inducingactivity has yet to be established.Methods: The mechanism involved in the cytotoxic activities of F5 against MCF7cells was elucidated by flow cytometry-based apoptosis detection, caspasesactivity measurement, and expression profiling of apoptosis markers by westernblotting. Molecular attributes of F5 were further mined from L. rhinocerus'spublished genome and transcriptome for future exploration.Results and Discussion: Apoptosis induction in MCF7 cells by F5 may involve across-talk between the extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathways withupregulation of caspase-8 and -9 activities and a marked decrease of Bcl-2. Onthe other hand, the levels of pro-apoptotic Bax, BID, and cleaved BID wereincreased accompanied by observable actin cleavage. At gene level, F5 composed ofthree predicted non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (T > C) and analternative 5' splice site.Conclusions: Findings from this study provide an advanced framework for furtherinvestigations on cancer therapeutics development from L. rhinocerus.DOI: 10.7717/peerj.4940 PMCID: PMC5993024PMID: 29888137 