178. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 2018 May;78(5):469-480. doi: 10.1055/a-0594-2243. Epub2018 Jun 4.4th International Consensus Conference on Advanced Breast Cancer (ABC4), Lisbon, November 4, 2017 : ABC4 Consensus: Assessment by a Panel of German Experts.Untch M(1), Würstlein R(2), Marschner N(3), Lüftner D(4), Augustin D(5), BriestS(6), Ettl J(7), Haidinger R(8), Müller L(9), Müller V(10), Ruckhäberle E(11),Harbeck N(12), Thomssen C(13).Author information: (1)Klinik für Gynäkologie, HELIOS Klinikum Berlin-Buch, Berlin, Germany; Writing Committee.(2)Brustzentrum und CCC München, Klinikum der Universität München, Klinik undPoliklinik für Frauenheilkunde und Geburtshilfe, München, Germany; WritingCommittee.(3)Gemeinschaftspraxis für interdisziplinäre Onkologie und Hämatologie, Freiburg,Germany; Writing Committee.(4)Medizinische Klinik mit Schwerpunkt Hämatologie, Onkologie undTumorimmunologie, Charité Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Berlin, Germany;Writing Committee.(5)Mammazentrum Ostbayern, DONAUISAR Klinikum Deggendorf, Deggendorf, Germany.(6)Universitätsfrauenklinik Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.(7)Frauenklinik und Poliklinik für Frauenheilkunde und Geburtshilfe, Klinikumrechts der Isar, München, Germany.(8)Patientenvertreterin, Brustkrebs Deutschland e. V.; Patient Advocacy CommitteeABC4, Faculty.(9)Onkologische Schwerpunktpraxis Leer-Emden-Papenburg, Leer, Germany.(10)Universitätsfrauenklinik Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.(11)Frauenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.(12)Brustzentrum und CCC München, Klinikum der Universität München, Klinik undPoliklinik für Frauenheilkunde und Geburtshilfe, München, Germany; WritingCommittee, ABC Panel Member, ABC Scientific Committee Member.(13)Universitätsklinik und Poliklinik für Gynäkologie, Martin-Luther-Universität,Halle an der Saale, Germany; Writing Committee, ABC Panel Member.The fourth international advanced breast cancer consensus conference (ABC4) onthe diagnosis and treatment of advanced breast cancer (ABC) headed by ProfessorFatima Cardoso was once again held in Lisbon on November 2 - 4, 2017. To simplifymatters, the abbreviation ABC will be used hereinafter in the text. In clinicalpractice, the abbreviation corresponds to metastatic breast cancer or locallyfar-advanced disease. This year the focus was on new developments in thetreatment of ABC. Topics discussed included the importance of CDK4/6 inhibitionin hormone receptor (HR)-positive ABC, the use of dual antibody blockade to treatHER2-positive ABC, PARP inhibition in triple-negative ABC and the potentialtherapeutic outcomes. Another major area discussed at the conference wasBRCA-associated breast cancer, the treatment of cerebral metastasis, andindividualized treatment decisions based on molecular testing (so-calledprecision medicine). As in previous years, close cooperation with representativesfrom patient organizations from around the world is an important aspect of theABC conference. This cooperation was reinforced and expanded at the ABC4conference. A global alliance was founded at the conclusion of the consensusconference, which aims to promote and coordinate the measures considerednecessary by patient advocates worldwide. Because the panel of experts wascomposed of specialists from all over the world, it was inevitable that the ABCconsensus also reflected country-specific features. As in previous years, a team of German breast cancer specialists who closely followed the consensus voting of the ABC panelists in Lisbon and intensively discussed the votes has thereforecommented on the consensus in the context of the current German guidelines on thediagnosis and treatment of breast cancer 1 ,  2 used in clinical practice inGermany. The ABC consensus is based on the votes of the ABC panelists in Lisbon.Publisher: Vom 2. bis 4. November 2017 fand in Lissabon erneut unter Leitung von Frau Professor Fatima Cardoso die 4. Internationale Konsensuskonferenz ABC4(Advanced Breast Cancer Forth Consensus) zu Diagnostik und Behandlung desfortgeschrittenen Mammakarzinoms (ABC) statt. Zur Vereinfachung wird im weiteren Text von ABC gesprochen, was im klinischen Alltag der metastasiertenBrustkrebserkrankung oder der lokal weit fortgeschrittenen Erkrankung entspricht.Der inhaltliche Schwerpunkt lag dieses Jahr auf neuen Entwicklungen in derBehandlung des ABC. Diskutiert wurden unter anderem der Stellenwert derCDK4/6-Inhibition beim hormonrezeptor-(HR-)positiven ABC, die dualeAntikörperblockade beim HER2-positiven ABC, die PARP-Inhibition beimBRCA-mutierten tripel-negativen und luminalen ABC sowie potenzielletherapeutische Konsequenzen. Ein weiterer Fokus lag auf dem BRCA-assoziiertenMammakarzinom, der Behandlung von Hirnmetastasen sowie der individualisiertenTherapieentscheidung auf der Grundlage einer molekularen Testung (sog.Präzisionsmedizin). Wie schon in den vergangenen Jahren ist die Zusammenarbeitmit den Vertretern von Patientenorganisationen aus aller Welt ein wichtigesAnliegen der ABC-Konferenz. Sie wurde auf der ABC4-Konferenz weiter intensiviert.Im Anschluss an die Konsensuskonferenz wurde die „Global Alliance“ gegründet mit dem Ziel, die erforderlichen Maßnahmen aus Sicht der Patientenvertreterinnenweltweit zu propagieren und zu koordinieren. In den ABC-Konsensus fließenaufgrund des international zusammengesetzten Expertenpanels zwangsläufigländerspezifische Besonderheiten ein. Wie schon in den vergangenen Jahren hatdaher eine Arbeitsgruppe deutscher Brustkrebsexperten, welche dieKonsensusabstimmung der ABC-Panelisten vor Ort mitverfolgt und intensivdiskutiert haben, diese unter Berücksichtigung der deutschen Leitlinien zuDiagnostik und Therapie des Mammakarzinoms 1 ,  2 für den Therapiealltag inDeutschland kommentiert. Die Abstimmungsergebnisse der ABC-Panelisten in Lissabonsind die Grundlage des ABC-Konsensus.DOI: 10.1055/a-0594-2243 PMCID: PMC5986575PMID: 29880982 