114. Appl Ergon. 2018 Oct;72:48-57. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2018.05.002. Epub 2018 May12.The relation between patient discomfort and uncompensated forces of a patientsupport device for breast and regional lymph node radiotherapy.Boute B(1), Veldeman L(2), Speleers B(3), Van Greveling A(4), Van Hoof T(5), Van de Velde J(5), Vercauteren T(2), De Neve W(2), Detand J(6).Author information: (1)Department of Radiotherapy and Experimental Cancer Research, Faculty ofMedicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University, Belgium; Industrial DesignCentre, Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, Ghent University, Belgium.Electronic address: bert.boute@ugent.be.(2)Department of Radiotherapy and Experimental Cancer Research, Faculty ofMedicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University, Belgium; Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Ghent, Belgium.(3)Department of Radiotherapy and Experimental Cancer Research, Faculty ofMedicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University, Belgium.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Ghent, Belgium.(5)Department of Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, GhentUniversity, Belgium.(6)Industrial Design Centre, Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, GhentUniversity, Belgium.Although many authors stated that a user-centred design approach in medicaldevice development has added values, the most common research approach withinhealthcare is evidence-based medicine, which tend to focus on functional datarather than patient wellbeing and comfort. End user comfort is well addressed in literature for commercial products such as seats and hand tools but no data wasfound for medical devices. A commercial patient support device for breastradiotherapy was analysed and a relation was found between discomfort anduncompensated internal body forces. Derived from CT-images, simplified patientfree-body diagrams were analysed and pain and comfort evaluated. Subsequently, a new patient position was established and prototypes were developed. Patientcomfort- and prototype optimization was done through iterative prototyping. With this approach, we were able to compensate all internal body forces and establish a force neutral patient free-body diagram. This resulted in comfortable patientpositioning and favourable medical results.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2018.05.002 PMID: 29885727 