154. Support Care Cancer. 2018 Jun 7. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4294-y. [Epub ahead ofprint]Medical, demographic and psychological correlates of fear of cancer recurrence(FCR) morbidity in breast, colorectal and melanoma cancer survivors with probableclinically significant FCR seeking psychological treatment through theConquerFear study.Smith A'(1)(2), Sharpe L(3), Thewes B(4)(5), Turner J(6), Gilchrist J(7), FardellJE(4)(8), Girgis A(9), Tesson S(4), Descallar J(9), Bell ML(4)(10), Beith J(11), Butow P(4); ConquerFear Authorship Group.Collaborators: Beatty L, Bennett B, Brebach R, Brock C, Butler S, Byrne D, Day S,Diggens J, Fairclough A, Faulkner T, Ftanou M, Grier M, Hill G, Jones T, Kirsten L, McConaghey S, McKinnon S, Mihalopoulos C, Mireskandari S, Musiello T, Penhale J, Pollard A, Rangganadhan A, Scealy M, Scott M, Shih S, Teoh M, Tiller K, WattP.Author information: (1)Psycho-Oncology Co-operative Research Group (PoCoG), University of Sydney,Sydney, Australia. ben.smith@unsw.edu.au.(2)Centre for Oncology Education and Research Translation (CONCERT), InghamInstitute for Applied Medical Research, South Western Sydney Clinical School,University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. ben.smith@unsw.edu.au.(3)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.(4)Psycho-Oncology Co-operative Research Group (PoCoG), University of Sydney,Sydney, Australia.(5)Department of Medical Psychology, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen,The Netherlands.(6)Mental Health Centre, Faculty of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane,Australia.(7)Crown Princess Mary Cancer Centre, Breast Cancer Institute, Westmead Hospital,Sydney, Australia.(8)Kids Cancer Centre, Sydney Children's Hospital and School of Women's andChildren's Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney,Australia.(9)Centre for Oncology Education and Research Translation (CONCERT), InghamInstitute for Applied Medical Research, South Western Sydney Clinical School,University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.(10)Epidemiology & Biostatistics, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.(11)Department of Medical Oncology, Chris O'Brien Lifehouse, Missenden Rd,Camperdown, NSW, Australia.PURPOSE: Despite the prevalence of fear of cancer recurrence (FCR), understandingof factors underlying clinically significant FCR is limited. This study examined factors associated with greater FCR morbidity, according to a cognitiveprocessing model, in cancer survivors who screened positively for clinicallysignificant FCR seeking psychological treatment through the ConquerFear trial.METHODS: Participants had completed treatment for breast, colorectal or melanoma cancer 2 months to 5 years previously and scored ≥ 13/36 on the Fear of CancerRecurrence Inventory-Short Form (FCRI-SF). Hierarchical regression analysesexamined associations between demographic, medical and psychological variables,namely metacognitions (MCQ-30), post-traumatic stress symptoms (IES-R) and FCR(FCRI total score).RESULTS: Two hundred and ten (95%) of the 222 cancer survivors who consented tothe ConquerFear trial completed the baseline questionnaire. Participants werepredominantly (89%) breast cancer survivors. The final regression model accountedfor 68% of the variance in FCR (demographic and medical variables 13%,metacognitions 26%, post-traumatic stress symptoms 28%). Negative metacognitivebeliefs about worry and intrusive post-traumatic stress symptoms were significantindividual correlates of FCR, but negative beliefs about worry did notsignificantly moderate the impact of intrusions on FCR morbidity.CONCLUSIONS: Results provide partial support for the cognitive processing modelof FCR. Psychological factors were found to play an important role in FCRmorbidity after controlling for demographic/medical factors. More intrusivethoughts and negative beliefs about worry were strong independent predictors ofFCR morbidity. Cancer survivors with clinically significant FCR may benefit from assessment for intrusive thoughts and metacognitions and delivery of trauma-and/or metacognitive-based interventions accordingly.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4294-y PMID: 29882025 