176. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 2018 May;78(5):493-498. doi: 10.1055/a-0594-2277. Epub2018 Jun 4.Galactography with Tomosynthesis Technique (Galactomosynthesis) - Renaissance of a Method?Schulz-Wendtland R(1), Preuss C(2), Fasching PA(2), Loehberg CR(2), Lux MP(2),Emons J(2), Beckmann MW(2), Uder M(1), Mueller-Schimpfle M(3).Author information: (1)Radiologisches Institut, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen, CCC ER-EMN,Universitäts-Brustzentrum Franken, Erlangen, Germany.(2)Frauenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Erlangen, CCC ER-EMN,Universitäts-Brustzentrum Franken, Erlangen, Germany.(3)Klinik für Radiologie - Klinikum Frankfurt Hoechst, DKG-zertifiziertesBrustzentrum, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.Introduction: For decades, conventional galactography was the only imagingtechnique capable of showing the mammary ducts. Today, diagnosis is based on amultimodal concept which combines high-resolution ultrasound with magneticresonance (MR) mammography and ductoscopy/galactoscopy and has a sensitivity and specificity of up to 95%. This study used tomosynthesis in galactography for the first time and compared the synthetic digital 2D full-field mammograms generated with this technique with the images created using the established method ofductal sonography. Both methods should be able to detect invasive breast cancers and their precursors such as ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) as well as beingable to identify benign findings.Material and Methods: Five patients with pathological nipple discharge wereexamined using ductal sonography, contrast-enhanced 3D galactography withtomosynthesis and the synthetic digital 2D full-field mammograms generated withthe latter method. Evaluation of the images created with the different imagingmodalities was done by three investigators with varying levels of experience withcomplementary breast diagnostics (1, 5 and 15 years), and their evaluations were compared with the histological findings.Results: All 3 investigators independently evaluated the images created withductal sonography, contrast-enhanced 3D galactography with tomosynthesis, andgenerated synthetic digital 2D full-field mammograms. Their evaluations werecompared with the histopathological assessment of the surgical specimens resectedfrom the 5 patients. There was 1 case of invasive breast cancer, 2 cases withductal carcinoma in situ and 2 cases with benign findings. All 3 investigatorsmade more mistakes when they used the standard imaging technique of ductalsonography to diagnose suspicious lesions than when they used contrast-enhancedgalactography with tomosynthesis and the generated synthetic digital 2Dfull-field mammograms.Conclusion: This is the first time breast tomosynthesis was used in galactography(galactomosynthesis) to create digital 3-dimensional images of suspiciousfindings. When used together with the generated synthetic digital 2D full-fieldmammograms, it could be a useful complementary procedure for the diagnosis ofbreast anomalies and could herald a renaissance of this method. Compared withhigh-resolution ductal ultrasound, the investigators achieved better results withcontrast-enhanced galactography using tomosynthesis and the generated syntheticdigital 2D full-field mammograms, as confirmed by histopathological findings.Publisher: Einleitung Die konventionelle Galaktografie stellte jahrzehntelang daseinzige bildgebende Verfahren zur Darstellung von Milchgängen in der Brust dar.Heute verfügen wir in der Diagnostik über ein multimodales Konzept aushochauflösendem Ultraschall, der Magnetresonanz-(MR-)Mammografie und derDuktoskopie/Galaktoskopie mit Sensitivitäten und Spezifitäten bis zu 95%. Zielunserer Untersuchung war es, erstmalig die Tomosynthesetechnik in derGalaktografie einzusetzen und die daraus generierten synthetischen digitalen2-D-Vollfeld-Mammografien mit der etablierten Methode der duktusorientiertenSonografie zu vergleichen. Es sollen mit beiden Methoden invasive Mammakarzinome und deren Vorstufen wie duktale Carcinoma in situ (DCIS) sowie benigne Befundeerkannt werden. Material und Methoden Wir führten bei 5 Patientinnen mitpathologischer Mamillensekretion sowohl eine duktusorientierte Sonografie, einekontrastmittelunterstützte Galaktografie mithilfe der Tomosynthese in 3-D sowieauch den daraus generierten synthetischen digitalen 2-D-Vollfeld-Mammografiendurch. Die Auswertung der unterschiedlichen Untersuchungsmodalitäten erfolgtedurch 3 in der komplementären Mammadiagnostik erfahrene Untersucher (1, 5 und 15 Jahre) und wurde mit der endgültigen Histologie korreliert. Ergebnisse Alle 3Untersucher beurteilten unabhängig voneinander die Bilder des duktusorientierten Ultraschalls und der kontrastmittelunterstützten Galaktografie inTomosynthesetechnik in 3-D und den daraus generierten, synthetischen digitalen2-D-Vollfeld-Mammografien. Die Ergebnisse wurden mit den histopathologischenBefunden der Operationspräparate korreliert, wobei sich bei den 5 Patientinnen 1 invasives Mammakarzinom, 2-mal ein duktales Carcinoma in situ (DCIS) und 2benigne Befunde ergaben. Alle drei Untersucher lagen bei der Verdachtsdiagnose inder Standardbildgebung der duktusorientierten Sonografie seltener richtig als beider erstmalig durchgeführten, kontrastmittelunterstützten Galaktografie inTomosynthesetechnik und den daraus generierten, synthetischen digitalen2-D-Vollfeld-Mammografien. Schlussfolgerung Erstmalig wurde die Brusttomosynthesein der Galaktografie (Galaktomosynthese) eingesetzt und ermöglichte einedigitale, 3-dimensionale Darstellung von suspekten Befunden. Zusammen mit dendaraus synthetisierten, digitalen 2-D-Vollfeld-Mammografien könnte dies inZukunft eine sinnvolle Ergänzung der komplementären Mammadiagnostik sein – undeine Renaissance dieser Methode. Im Vergleich mit dem duktusorientiertenUltraschall in Hochauflösung erzielten die Untersucher mit derkontrastmittelunterstützten Galaktografie in Tomosynthesetechnik und den darausgenerierten, synthetischen digitalen 2-D-Vollfeld-Mammografien bessere Ergebnissein Korrelation mit den histopathologischen Befunden.DOI: 10.1055/a-0594-2277 PMCID: PMC5986572PMID: 29880984 