174. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 2018 May;78(5):506-511. doi: 10.1055/a-0603-4314. Epub2018 Jun 4.Mammography Screening 2.0 - How Can Risk-Adapted Screening be Implemented inClinical Practice?: Results of a Focus Group Discussion with Experts in theRISIKOLOTSE.DE Project.Fürst N(1), Kiechle M(1), Strahwald B(2), Quante AS(1)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Frauenklinik und Poliklinik, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische Universität München, München, Germany.(2)Institut für Medizinische Informationsverarbeitung, Biometrie undEpidemiologie, Pettenkofer School of Public Health, LMU München, München,Germany.(3)Institut für Medizinische Informationsverarbeitung, Biometrie undEpidemiologie, Lehrstuhl für Genetische Epidemiologie, LMU München, München,Germany.(4)Institut für Genetische Epidemiologie, Helmholtz Zentrum München - GermanResearch Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.Introduction: The mammography screening programme has been the subject ofcriticism for some time. Invitation to take part is currently based only on therisk factors of age and female sex, whereby women with an above-average risk are screened too seldom and women with a low risk are possibly screened too often. Infuture, an individualised risk assessment could make a risk-adapted procedurepossible in breast cancer screening. In the RISIKOLOTSE.DE project, schemes aredevised to calculate the individual breast cancer risk and evaluate the results. The aim is to assist doctors and screening participants in participatorydecision-making. To gauge the baseline situation in the target groups,qualitative and quantitative surveys were conducted.Method: At the start of the project, a guideline-based focus group discussion washeld with 15 doctors and representatives of the public health service. Thetranscript of this discussion was evaluated by means of a qualitative contentanalysis.Results: The participants assessed the concept of risk-adapted screeningpositively overall. At the same time, the majority of them were of the opinionthat the results of individualised risk calculation can be understood andevaluated adequately only by doctors. The great communication requirement andlack of remuneration were given as practical obstacles to implementation.Discussion: The suggestions and new ideas from the focus group ranged fromadministrative and regulatory changes to new forms of counselling and adaptablepractice aids. An important indicator for the RISIKOLOTSE.DE conception and forplanning future surveys was that risk calculation for mammography screening 2.0was regarded as a purely medical function and that the concept of participatorydecision-making played hardly any part in the discussion.Publisher: Einleitung Das Mammografie-Screening-Programm steht seit einiger Zeit in der Kritik. Die Einladung zur Teilnahme beruht derzeit nur auf denRisikofaktoren Alter und weibliches Geschlecht, wodurch Frauen mitüberdurchschnittlichem Risiko zu selten, Frauen mit niedrigem Risikomöglicherweise zu häufig untersucht werden. Künftig könnte eine individualisierteRisikobewertung ein risikoadaptiertes Vorgehen bei der Brustkrebs-Früherkennungermöglichen. Im Projekt RISIKOLOTSE.DE werden Angebote erarbeitet, um dasindividuelle Brustkrebsrisiko zu berechnen und die Ergebnisse zu bewerten. Zielist es, Ärzte und Screening-Teilnehmerinnen bei der partizipativenEntscheidungsfindung zu unterstützen. Um die Ausgangssituation bei denZielgruppen zu erfassen, wurden qualitative und quantitative Erhebungendurchgeführt. Methode Zu Projektbeginn wurde eine leitfadenbasierteFokusgruppendiskussion mit 15 Ärzten und Vertretern des öffentlichenGesundheitsdienstes durchgeführt. Das Transkript dieser Diskussion wurde mittels einer qualitativen Inhaltsanalyse ausgewertet. Ergebnisse Die Teilnehmerbewerteten das Konzept der risikoadaptierten Früherkennung insgesamt positiv.Gleichzeitig waren sie mehrheitlich der Meinung, dass die Ergebnisse derindividualisierten Risikokalkulation nur von Ärzten adäquat verstanden undbewertet werden können. Als praktische Hürden bei der Umsetzung wurden besonders der hohe Kommunikationsaufwand und die fehlende Vergütung angeführt. DiskussionDie Vorschläge und Impulse aus der Fokusgruppe reichten von administrativen bzw. regulatorischen Änderungen über neue Beratungsformen bis hin zu adaptierbarenPraxishilfen. Für die Konzeption von RISIKOLOTSE.DE und die Planung weitererErhebungen war ein wichtiger Hinweis, dass die Risikoberechnung für dasMammografie-Screening 2.0 als rein ärztliche Aufgabe gesehen wurde und dass dasKonzept der partizipativen Entscheidungsfindung bei der Diskussion kaum eineRolle spielte.DOI: 10.1055/a-0603-4314 PMCID: PMC5986567PMID: 29880986 