63. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Jun 11:JCO2018792721. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.79.2721. [Epubahead of print]Integrative Therapies During and After Breast Cancer Treatment: ASCO Endorsement of the SIO Clinical Practice Guideline.Lyman GH(1), Greenlee H(1), Bohlke K(1), Bao T(1), DeMichele AM(1), Deng GE(1),Fouladbakhsh JM(1), Gil B(1), Hershman DL(1), Mansfield S(1), Mussallem DM(1),Mustian KM(1), Price E(1), Rafte S(1), Cohen L(1).Author information: (1)Gary H. Lyman and Heather Greenlee, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center andUniversity of Washington, Seattle, WA; Kari Bohlke, American Society of Clinical Oncology, Alexandria, VA; Ting Bao and Gary E. Deng, Memorial Sloan KetteringCancer Center; Dawn L. Hershman, Columbia University Medical Center, New York;Karen M. Mustian, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY; AngelaM. DeMichele, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia, PA; Judith M. Fouladbakhsh, Oakland University, Rochester, MI;Brigitte Gil, Lahey Hospital and Medical Center, Burlington, MA; Sami Mansfield, Cancer Wellness for Life, Shawnee, KS; Sarah Cannon Cancer Institute, KansasCity, MO; Dawn M. Mussallem, The Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL; Erin Price, SmithCenter for Healing and the Arts, Washington, DC; Susan Rafte, Houston, TX; andLorenzo Cohen, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.Purpose The Society for Integrative Oncology (SIO) produced an evidence-basedguideline on use of integrative therapies during and after breast cancertreatment that was determined to be relevant to the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) membership. ASCO considered the guideline for endorsement.Methods The SIO guideline addressed the use of integrative therapies for themanagement of symptoms and adverse effects, such as anxiety and stress, mooddisorders, fatigue, quality of life, chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting,lymphedema, chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, pain, and sleepdisturbance. Interventions of interest included mind and body practices, natural products, and lifestyle modifications. SIO systematic reviews focused onrandomized controlled trials that were published from 1990 through 2015. The SIO guideline was reviewed by ASCO content experts for clinical accuracy and by ASCO methodologists for developmental rigor. On favorable review, an ASCO Expert Panelwas convened to review the guideline contents and recommendations. Results TheASCO Expert Panel determined that the recommendations in the SIOguideline-published in 2017-are clear, thorough, and based on the most relevantscientific evidence. ASCO endorsed the guideline with a few added discussionpoints. Recommendations Key recommendations include the following: Music therapy,meditation, stress management, and yoga are recommended for anxiety/stressreduction. Meditation, relaxation, yoga, massage, and music therapy arerecommended for depression/mood disorders. Meditation and yoga are recommended toimprove quality of life. Acupressure and acupuncture are recommended for reducingchemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Acetyl-l-carnitine is not recommendedto prevent chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy because of a possibility ofharm. No strong evidence supports the use of ingested dietary supplements tomanage breast cancer treatment-related adverse effects. Additional information isavailable at: www.asco.org/supportive-care-guidelines .DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.79.2721 PMID: 29889605 