112. Clin Breast Cancer. 2018 Apr 19. pii: S1526-8209(18)30048-X. doi:10.1016/j.clbc.2018.04.009. [Epub ahead of print]Inducing or Preventing Subsequent Malignancies for Breast Cancer Survivors?Double-edged Sword of Estrogen Receptor and Progesterone Receptor.Hu ZY(1), Xiao H(2), Xiao M(2), Tang Y(2), Sun J(3), Xie ZM(4), Ouyang Q(5).Author information: (1)Hunan Cancer Hospital and the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, People's Republic of China;Department of Breast Cancer Medical Oncology, Hunan Cancer Hospital, Changsha,People's Republic of China; Department of Breast Cancer Medical Oncology, TheAffiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of Medicine, Central SouthUniversity, Changsha, People's Republic of China; Central Laboratory, TheAffiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya Medical School, Central South University,Changsha, People's Republic of China.(2)Hunan Cancer Hospital and the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, People's Republic of China;Department of Breast Cancer Medical Oncology, Hunan Cancer Hospital, Changsha,People's Republic of China; Department of Breast Cancer Medical Oncology, TheAffiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of Medicine, Central SouthUniversity, Changsha, People's Republic of China.(3)Department of Clinical Research, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center,Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.(4)Department of Breast Oncology, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center,Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.(5)Hunan Cancer Hospital and the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South University, Changsha, People's Republic of China;Department of Breast Cancer Medical Oncology, Hunan Cancer Hospital, Changsha,People's Republic of China; Department of Breast Cancer Medical Oncology, TheAffiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of Medicine, Central SouthUniversity, Changsha, People's Republic of China. Electronic address:oyqc1969@126.com.INTRODUCTION: Hormone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(HER2) status is important for breast cancer (BC) treatment. Previous studieshave shown that the long-term treatment outcomes of BC are significantly impairedby the development of subsequent malignancies. Therefore, in the present study,we evaluated the effect of hormone receptor/HER2 status on subsequentmalignancies in breast cancer survivors.METHODS AND MATERIALS: The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results*Statdatabase (8.3.4) was used as the data source. We identified 535,941 femalesurvivors with first primary BC through the database from 1973 to 2013. Of these patients, 23,964 had developed subsequent contralateral BC, 8398 had developedsubsequent uterine or ovarian cancer, and 7435 patients had developed subsequent colorectal cancer.RESULTS: Estrogen receptor (ER) positivity and progesterone receptor (PR)positivity were significant protective factors against subsequent BC and ovarian cancer. However, ER+ BC and PR+ BC were significant risk factors for subsequentcolorectal cancer. In addition, HER2+ status demonstrated a marginallysignificant risk effect for subsequent thyroid cancer. Triple-negative(ER-/PR-/HER2-) status showed elevated risk of subsequent breast, ovarian, anduterine cancer.CONCLUSION: ER+/PR+ patients were less likely develop secondary breast andovarian malignancies, possibly owing to advancements in anti-ER/PR treatment.However, ER+/PR+ patients were more likely to develop colorectal cancer,suggesting a potential screening necessity for these patients.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2018.04.009 PMID: 29885789 