138. PLoS One. 2018 Jun 8;13(6):e0197827. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197827.eCollection 2018.Androgen receptor positive triple negative breast cancer: Clinicopathologic,prognostic, and predictive features.Astvatsaturyan K(1), Yue Y(2), Walts AE(1), Bose S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California, United States of America.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles,California, United States of America.INTRODUCTION: Overexpression of the androgen receptor (AR) characterizes adistinct molecular subset of triple negative breast carcinomas (TNBC). The roleof AR as a prognostic/predictive biomarker in TNBC is controversial, butincreasing evidence suggests that this subset may respond to therapeutic agentstargeting AR. Evaluation of AR has not been standardized, and criteria forselection of patients for antiandrogen therapy remain controversial. In thisstudy we determine the appropriate threshold of AR immunoreactivity to define AR positive (AR+) TNBC, describe the clinicopathologic features of AR+ TNBC, anddiscuss the utility of AR positivity as a prognostic and predictive marker inTNBC.MATERIALS AND METHODS: 135 invasive TNBC processed in accordance with ASCO/CAPguidelines, were immunostained for AR. Clinicopathologic features of AR+ TNBCwere analyzed and compared to AR negative (AR-) TNBC. Patients' age, tumor size, tumor grade, lymph node status, proliferation rate, immunopositivity for EGFR,CK5/6, Ki-67, and disease free survival (DFS) were evaluated statistically.RESULTS: A 1% cutpoint was confirmed as the appropriate threshold for ARpositivity. Using this cutpoint 41% of 135 TNBC were AR+. AR+ TNBC occurred inolder women, were larger, had lower mean proliferation rate and increasedincidence of axillary metastasis than AR- TNBC. 76% of TNBC with apocrinemorphology were AR+. A subset of AR+TNBC expressed basal markers (EGFR andCK5/6). A prognostic model was created.SUMMARY: AR identifies a heterogeneous group of TNBC. Additional evaluation ofEGFR expression allowed us to stratify TNBCs into 3 risk groups with significant differences in DFS and therapeutic implications: low-risk (AR+ EGFR-) whichrepresents the LAR molecular subtype with the best prognosis and may benefit the most from anti-androgen therapies; high-risk (AR- EGFR+) which represents thebasal molecular subtype with the worst prognosis and may benefit the most fromchemotherapy regimens; intermediate-risk (AR+EGFR+ and AR-EGFR-) TNBC with anintermediate prognosis. Prospective trials are required to further validate this prognostic and predictive grouping.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0197827 PMCID: PMC5993259PMID: 29883487 