149. Acta Oncol. 2018 Jun 8:1-9. doi: 10.1080/0284186X.2018.1481291. [Epub ahead ofprint]Women's perceptions of the adoption of personalised risk-based breast cancerscreening and primary prevention: a systematic review.Rainey L(1), van der Waal D(1), Wengström Y(2)(3), Jervaeus A(2), BroedersMJM(1)(4).Author information: (1)a Radboud Institute for Health Sciences, Radboud University Medical Center ,Nijmegen , The Netherlands.(2)b Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Division of Nursing ,Karolinska Institutet , Huddinge , Sweden.(3)c Theme Cancer, Karolinska University Hospital , Huddinge , Sweden.(4)d Dutch Expert Center for Screening , Nijmegen , The Netherlands.INTRODUCTION: Increased knowledge of breast cancer risk factors may enable aparadigm shift from the current age-based mammographic screening programmes to a personalised risk-based approach. This would warrant a significant change inpractice, yet the acceptability from a woman's perspective has never beensystematically explored. In this systematic review, we inventoried and appraised studies of women's perceptions of risk-based breast cancer screening andprevention to identify factors associated with adopting this new paradigm.METHODS: We searched Medline, Embase and PsycInfo to identify original articlesin English containing perceptions of risk-based breast cancer screening and/orprimary prevention of women with an average to above average risk of developingbreast cancer. Qualitative data were systematically extracted and referencedagainst four theoretical models of preventative health behaviour adoption.RESULTS: When considering the adoption of this novel screening and preventionprogramme, women carefully review their perceived susceptibility to breastcancer. Their decisions are based on a cost-benefit analysis of adoptinglifestyle changes, chemoprevention, or prophylactic surgery, taking into account their perceived competence, individual autonomy, relatedness to others, andpersonal preference. The role of intent is limited when considering behaviouralchange.CONCLUSIONS: Implementing risk-based breast cancer screening and prevention will require a multifactorial approach. The transition from theory to practice can be supported by developing evidence-based shared decision aids and family-oriented(genetic) counselling programmes.DOI: 10.1080/0284186X.2018.1481291 PMID: 29882455 