108. Chem Biol Interact. 2018 Aug 1;291:29-39. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.05.016. Epub2018 Jun 7.From epidemiology to treatment: Aspirin's prevention of brain and breast-cancerand cardioprotection may associate with its metabolite gentisic acid.Altinoz MA(1), Elmaci I(2), Cengiz S(3), Emekli-Alturfan E(4), Ozpinar A(5).Author information: (1)Neuroacademy Group, Istanbul, Turkey; Department of Psychiatry, MaastrichtUniversity, Holland, Netherlands. Electronic address: maltinoz@gmail.com.(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Memorial Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.(3)Insitute of Forensics, Istanbul University, Turkey.(4)Department of Biochemistry, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey.(5)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Acibadem University, Istanbul, Turkey.BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies indicate that aspirin consumption reduces therisk of tumors, which is especially relevant for colonic adenoma and carcinoma.Similar observations were made for glial brain tumors and breast cancers, yet theresults are inconsistent. Gentisic acid (GA) is a minor catabolite of aspirin;yet humans carrying CYP2C9-variants incapable to catabolize aspirin to GA do not benefit from aspirin in prevention against colonic adenoma. GA blocks binding of Fibroblastic Growth Factor to its receptor and its sulphonate metabolitedobesilic acid blocks growth of C6 glioblastoma in vivo. GA is also anendogenously produced siderophore in mammalians for the transport of iron, atrace element which stimulates tumor growth and enhances anthracyclinecardiotoxicity.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, we assessed whether GA exerts directantitumor activity on C6 glioma cells in vitro (cytotoxicity, colony growth,3H-thymidine labeling analysis of DNA synthesis); and whether it can modifygrowth of Ehrlich breast ascites carcinoma (EAC) and solid tumors (EST) in vivo. GA and antitumoral trace element selenium block 12-lipoxygenase activity andaspirin's paradoxical inflammatory effects are seen in selenium-deficient humans;thus, we also investigated antitumor interactions between GA and sodium selenite.Lastly, we evaluated whether GA could protect against doxorubicin cardiotoxicity due to its function to chelate iron.RESULTS: Clinically achievable doses of GA blocked growth, colony formation andDNA synthesis of C6 glioma in vitro with high significance. GA enhanced thesurvival of EAC-bearing mice at a dosage of 0.4 mg/mice/day, in which 33% of the treated animals survived more than 3-weeks, when all untreated mice succumbed to their tumors. Selenium decreased EST volumes initially, yet increased tumorvolumes at later stages in surviving mice. GA alone reduced solid tumor growthand did not modify selenite antineoplasticity initially, but blocked the latetumor-stimulating effects of selenite. Lastly, doxorubicin-induced cardiacmyofibrillary and endothelial damage and hyalinization necrosis were attenuatedwith GA treatment.CONCLUSIONS: GA highly merits to be studied in further animal models as ananticancer and chemoprotective drug.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2018.05.016 PMID: 29885857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]