119. Biol Chem. 2018 Jun 19. pii:/j/bchm.ahead-of-print/hsz-2018-0111/hsz-2018-0111.xml. doi:10.1515/hsz-2018-0111. [Epub ahead of print]Overview of tissue kallikrein and kallikrein-related peptidases in breast cancer.Figueroa CD(1), Molina L(2), Bhoola KD(1), Ehrenfeld P(1)(3).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Cellular Pathology, Institute of Anatomy, Histology andPathology, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile.(2)Department of Science, Universidad San Sebastián, sede De la Patagonia, PuertoMontt, Chile.(3)Centro de Investigaciones del Sistema Nervioso (CISNe), Valdivia, Chile,e-mail:pamelaehrenfeld74@gmail.com.The kallikrein family comprises tissue kallikrein and 14 kallikrein-relatedpeptidases (KLKs) recognized as a subgroup of secreted trypsin- orchymotrypsin-like serine proteases. KLKs are expressed in many cellular typeswhere they regulate important physiological activities such as semenliquefaction, immune response, neural development, blood pressure, skindesquamation and tooth enamel formation. Tissue kallikrein, the oldest member andkinin-releasing enzyme, and KLK3/PSA, a tumor biomarker for prostate cancer arethe most prominent components of the family. Additionally, other KLKs have shown an abnormal expression in neoplasia, particularly in breast cancer. Thus,increased levels of some KLKs may increase extracellular matrix degradation,invasion and metastasis; other KLKs modulate cell growth, survival andangiogenesis. On the contrary, KLKs can also inhibit angiogenesis and producetumor suppression. However, there is a lack of knowledge on how KLKs areregulated in tumor microenvironment by molecules present at the site, namelycytokines, inflammatory mediators and growth factors. Little is known about thesignaling pathways that control expression/secretion of KLKs in breast cancer,and further how activation of PAR receptors may contribute to functional activityin neoplasia. A better understanding of these molecular events will allow us toconsider KLKs as relevant therapeutic targets for breast cancer.DOI: 10.1515/hsz-2018-0111 PMID: 29885274 