193. Carcinogenesis. 2018 Jun 9. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgy078. [Epub ahead of print]Deficiency of Tumor Suppressor Merlin Facilitates Metabolic Adaptation byco-operative Engagement of SMAD-Hippo Signaling in Breast Cancer.Mota M(1), Jackson WP(1), Bailey SK(1), Vayalil P(1), Landar A(1), Rostas JW3rd(2), Mulekar MS(3), Samant RS(1)(4), Shevde LA(1)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham.(2)University of Louisville, Kentucky.(3)University of South Alabama.(4)Comprehensive Cancer Center, The University of Alabama at Birmingham.The NF2 gene encodes the tumor and metastasis suppressor protein Merlin. Merlinexerts its tumor suppressive role by inhibiting proliferation and inducingcontact-growth inhibition and apoptosis. In the current investigation, wedetermined that loss of Merlin in breast cancer tissues is concordant with theloss of the inhibitory SMAD, SMAD7, of the TGF-β pathway. This was reflected asdysregulated activation of TGF-β signaling that co-operatively engaged witheffectors of the Hippo pathway (YAP/TAZ/TEAD). As a consequence, the loss ofMerlin in breast cancer resulted in a significant metabolic and bioenergeticadaptation of cells characterized by increased aerobic glycolysis and decreasedoxygen consumption. Mechanistically, we determined that the co-operative activityof the Hippo and TGF-β transcription effectors caused upregulation of the longnon-coding RNA Urothelial Cancer-Associated 1 (UCA1) that disengaged Merlin'scheck on STAT3 activity. The consequent upregulation of Hexokinase 2 (HK2)enabled a metabolic shift towards aerobic glycolysis. In fact, Merlin deficiency engendered cellular dependence on this metabolic adaptation, endorsing a criticalrole for Merlin in regulating cellular metabolism. This is the first report ofMerlin functioning as a molecular restraint on cellular metabolism. Thus, breast cancer patients whose tumors demonstrate concordant loss of Merlin and SMAD7 may benefit from an approach of incorporating STAT3 inhibitors.DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgy078 PMID: 29893810 