36. Phys Med. 2018 Jun;50:7-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2018.05.018. Epub 2018 May 26.Impact of dose engine algorithm in pencil beam scanning proton therapy for breastcancer.Tommasino F(1), Fellin F(2), Lorentini S(2), Farace P(2).Author information: (1)Department of Physics, University of Trento, Povo, Italy; Trento Institute forFundamental Physics and Applications (TIFPA), National Institute for NuclearPhysics, (INFN), Povo, Italy. Electronic address: francesco.tommasino@unitn.it.(2)Protontherapy Department, Azienda Provinciale per i Servizi Sanitari (APSS),Trento, Italy.PURPOSE: Proton therapy for the treatment of breast cancer is acquiringincreasing interest, due to the potential reduction of radiation-induced sideeffects such as cardiac and pulmonary toxicity. While several in silico studiesdemonstrated the gain in plan quality offered by pencil beam scanning (PBS)compared to passive scattering techniques, the related dosimetric uncertaintieshave been poorly investigated so far.METHODS: Five breast cancer patients were planned with Raystation 6 analyticalpencil beam (APB) and Monte Carlo (MC) dose calculation algorithms. Plans wereoptimized with APB and then MC was used to recalculate dose distribution. Movablesnout and beam splitting techniques (i.e. using two sub-fields for the same beam entrance, one with and the other without the use of a range shifter) wereconsidered. PTV dose statistics were recorded. The same planning configurationswere adopted for the experimental benchmark. Dose distributions were measuredwith a 2D array of ionization chambers and compared to APB and MC calculated onesby means of a γ analysis (agreement criteria 3%, 3 mm).RESULTS: Our results indicate that, when using proton PBS for breast cancertreatment, the Raystation 6 APB algorithm does not allow obtaining sufficientaccuracy, especially with large air gaps. On the contrary, the MC algorithmresulted into much higher accuracy in all beam configurations tested and has tobe recommended.CONCLUSIONS: Centers where a MC algorithm is not yet available should consider a careful use of APB, possibly combined with a movable snout system or in any case with strategies aimed at minimizing air gaps.Copyright © 2018 Associazione Italiana di Fisica Medica. Published by ElsevierLtd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmp.2018.05.018 PMID: 29891097 