117. Mod Pathol. 2018 Jun 13. doi: 10.1038/s41379-018-0073-z. [Epub ahead of print]Using deep convolutional neural networks to identify and classifytumor-associated stroma in diagnostic breast biopsies.Ehteshami Bejnordi B(1)(2), Mullooly M(3)(4), Pfeiffer RM(3), Fan S(3), VacekPM(5), Weaver DL(6), Herschorn S(7)(8), Brinton LA(3), van Ginneken B(1),Karssemeijer N(1), Beck AH(2)(9), Gierach GL(3), van der Laak JAWM(10)(11),Sherman ME(12).Author information: (1)Diagnostic Image Analysis Group, Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine,Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.(2)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(3)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute,Bethesda, MD, USA.(4)Cancer Prevention Fellowship Program, Division of Cancer Prevention, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA.(5)Department of Medical Biostatistics, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT,USA.(6)Department of Pathology, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, USA.(7)University of Vermont Cancer Center, Burlington, VT, USA.(8)Department of Radiology, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, USA.(9)PathAI, Inc., Cambridge, MA, USA.(10)Diagnostic Image Analysis Group, Department of Radiology and NuclearMedicine, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.Jeroen.vanderLaak@radboudumc.nl.(11)Department of Pathology, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, TheNetherlands. Jeroen.vanderLaak@radboudumc.nl.(12)Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA.The breast stromal microenvironment is a pivotal factor in breast cancerdevelopment, growth and metastases. Although pathologists often detectmorphologic changes in stroma by light microscopy, visual classification of such changes is subjective and non-quantitative, limiting its diagnostic utility. Togain insights into stromal changes associated with breast cancer, we appliedautomated machine learning techniques to digital images of 2387 hematoxylin andeosin stained tissue sections of benign and malignant image-guided breastbiopsies performed to investigate mammographic abnormalities among 882 patients, ages 40-65 years, that were enrolled in the Breast Radiology Evaluation and Studyof Tissues (BREAST) Stamp Project. Using deep convolutional neural networks, wetrained an algorithm to discriminate between stroma surrounding invasive cancerand stroma from benign biopsies. In test sets (928 whole-slide images from 330patients), this algorithm could distinguish biopsies diagnosed as invasive cancerfrom benign biopsies solely based on the stromal characteristics (area under the receiver operator characteristics curve = 0.962). Furthermore, without beingtrained specifically using ductal carcinoma in situ as an outcome, the algorithm detected tumor-associated stroma in greater amounts and at larger distances from grade 3 versus grade 1 ductal carcinoma in situ. Collectively, these resultssuggest that algorithms based on deep convolutional neural networks that evaluateonly stroma may prove useful to classify breast biopsies and aid in understandingand evaluating the biology of breast lesions.DOI: 10.1038/s41379-018-0073-z PMID: 29899550 