Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declaredthat no competing interest exists.162. J Cancer. 2018 Apr 30;9(11):1973-1977. doi: 10.7150/jca.24782. eCollection 2018.Aerosol Immunotherapy with or without Cisplatin for metastatic lung cancernon-small cell lung cancer disease: In vivo Study. A more efficient combination.Sapalidis K(1), Zarogoulidis P(2), Pavlidis E(1), Laskou S(1), Katsaounis A(1),Koulouris C(1), Giannakidis D(1), Mantalovas S(1), Huang H(3), Bai C(3), WenY(4), Wang L(4), Sardeli C(5), Amaniti A(6), Karapantzos I(7), Karapantzou C(7), Hohenforst-Schmidt W(8), Konstantinou F(9), Kesisoglou I(1), Benhanseen N(8).Author information: (1)3rd Department of Surgery, "AHEPA" University Hospital, Aristotle Universityof Thessaloniki, Medical School, Thessaloniki, Greece.(2)Pulmonary Department-Oncology Unit, "Theageneio" Cancer Hospital,Thessaloniki, Greece.(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Changhai Hospital,Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, China.(4)Department of Respiratory Diseases, The Affiliated Jiangning hospital ofNanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.(5)Department of Pharmacology & Clinical Pharmacology, School of Medicine,Faculty of Health Sciences, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki,Greece.(6)Anesthesiology Department, "AHEPA" University Hospital, Aristotle Universityof Thessaloniki, Medical School, Thessaloniki, Greece.(7)Ear, Nose and Throat Department, "Saint Luke" Private Hospital, Panorama,Thessaloniki, Greece.(8)Sana Clinic Group Franken, Department of Cardiology / Pulmonology / Intensive Care / Nephrology, ''Hof'' Clinics, University of Erlangen, Hof, Germany.(9)Thoracic Surgery Department, University General Hospital of Alexandroupolis,Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece.Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death after prostate cancer for males and breast cancer for females. There are novel therapies in the past five yearssuch as; tyrosine kinase inhibitors and most recently in the last two yearsimmunotherapy. Immunotherapy is currently being investigated if it can beadministered alone or in combination. Previously we have investigated whetherimmunotherapy compounds can be produced as aerosols, and in the current study we investigated the safety and efficiency independently of the programmeddeath-ligand 1. The aerosol administration of both cisplatin and nivolumab ispossible. The combination of the two drugs has a synergistic effect and thereforeshould be considered an option. Time of administration for immunotherapy is also very important.DOI: 10.7150/jca.24782 PMCID: PMC5995940PMID: 29896282 