48. Biosens Bioelectron. 2018 Oct 15;117:97-103. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2018.05.053.Epub 2018 May 29.A flow-proteometric platform for analyzing protein concentration (FAP): Proof of concept for quantification of PD-L1 protein in cells and tissues.Chou CK(1), Huang PJ(2), Tsou PH(1), Wei Y(1), Lee HH(1), Wang YN(1), Liu YL(3), Shi C(1), Yeh HC(3), Kameoka J(4), Hung MC(5).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas MDAnderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(2)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Texas A&M University, CollegeStation, TX, USA.(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin,Austin, TX, USA.(4)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Texas A&M University, CollegeStation, TX, USA; Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Texas A&MUniversity, College Station, TX, USA. Electronic address:kameoka@mail.ece.tamu.edu.(5)Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas MDAnderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA; Graduate Institute for BiomedicalSciences and Center for Molecular Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung,Taiwan; Cancer Biology Program, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, TheUniversity of Texas Health Sciences Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA;Department of Biotechnology, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan. Electronicaddress: mhung@mdanderson.org.Protein expression level is critically related to the cell physiologicalfunction. However, current methodologies such as Western blot (WB) andImmunohistochemistry (IHC) in analyzing the protein level are rathersemi-quantitative and without the information of actual protein concentration. Wehave developed a microfluidic technique termed a "flow-proteometric platform for analyzing protein concentration (FAP)" that can measure the concentration of atarget protein in cells or tissues without the requirement of a calibrationstandard, e.g., the purified target molecules. To validate our method, we tested a number of control samples with known target protein concentrations and showedthat the FAP measurement resulted in concentrations that well matched the actual concentrations in the control samples (coefficient of determination [R2], 0.998),demonstrating a dynamic range of concentrations from 0.13 to 130 pM of adetection for 2 min. We successfully determined a biomarker protein (forpredicting the treatment response of cancer immune check-point therapy) PD-L1concentration in cancer cell lines (HeLa PD-L1 and MDA-MB-231) and breast cancer patient tumor tissues without any prior process of sample purification andstandard line construction. Therefore, FAP is a simple, faster, and reliablemethod to measure the protein concentration in cells and tissues, which cansupport the conventional methods such as WB and IHC to determine the actualprotein level.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2018.05.053 PMID: 29890396 