30. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2018 Jun;16(6):677-682. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2018.7012.Integrated Histogenetic Analysis Reveals BAP1-Mutated Epithelioid Mesothelioma ina Patient With Cancer of Unknown Primary.Bochtler T(1)(1), Endris V(1), Reiling A(1), Leichsenring J(1), SchweigerMR(1)(1), Klein S(1)(1), Stögbauer F(1), Goeppert B(1), Schirmacher P(1)(1),Krämer A(1)(1), Stenzinger A(1)(1).Author information: (1)Clinical Cooperation Unit Molecular Hematology/Oncology, German CancerResearch Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg; Department of Internal Medicine V, UniversityHospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg; Institute of Pathology, University HospitalHeidelberg, Heidelberg; Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital Cologne,Cologne; Laboratory for Translational Epigenetics and Tumor Genetics, Cologne;and German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg, Germany.This case report presents a male patient with epithelioid mesothelioma that wasinitially misdiagnosed as cancer of unknown primary (CUP) and correctlyidentified using molecular panel sequencing. The patient had a prior history ofcolon and breast cancer. To assess the enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes,retrosternal lymphadenectomy was performed in 2016. The lymph nodes werehistologically deemed unrelated to the known breast cancer by the referencepathologist, thus leading to the diagnosis of a CUP syndrome. When the patientpresented to our center, targeted deep sequencing of both breast cancer andpresumed CUP was performed to address the clonal relationship between bothmalignancies. A missense mutation in BAP1 was revealed in both samples, withcoverage data indicating a germline event. The patient was subsequently counseledby a human geneticist and underwent genetic testing, which confirmed the germlinenature of this mutation. Collectively, these data led to the diagnosis of BAP1(BRCA1-associated protein-1) tumor predisposition syndrome (TPDS). With theknowledge of an underlying BAP1 mutation and its known frequent association with epithelioid mesothelioma, the histology was reassessed and the diagnosis wasrevised to epithelioid mesothelioma. At this point, peritoneal involvement ofmesothelioma could be diagnosed and histologically confirmed. This caseillustrates the potential of integrated histopathologic and molecular diagnosticsin helping to decipher CUP syndromes and establish the correct diagnosis.Additionally, this case highlights typical features of BAP1 TPDS with its generalsusceptibility to cancers, with pleural and peritoneal mesotheliomas as mostprevalent clinical entities and the typically more benign course of theseepithelioid mesotheliomas compared with BAP1-unrelated cases of mesotheliomas.Copyright © 2018 by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2018.7012 PMID: 29891518 