164. Front Genet. 2018 May 29;9:189. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00189. eCollection 2018.Removing Background Co-occurrences of Transcription Factor Binding Sites Greatly Improves the Prediction of Specific Transcription Factor Cooperations.Meckbach C(1), Wingender E(1), Gültas M(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)Institute of Bioinformatics, University Medical Center Göttingen,Georg-August-University Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.(2)Department of Breeding Informatics, Georg-August University Göttingen,Göttingen, Germany.(3)Center for Integrated Breeding Research (CiBreed), Georg-August UniversityGöttingen, Göttingen, Germany.Today, it is well-known that in eukaryotic cells the complex interplay oftranscription factors (TFs) bound to the DNA of promoters and enhancers is thebasis for precise and specific control of transcription. Computational methodshave been developed for the identification of potentially cooperating TFs throughthe co-occurrence of their binding sites (TFBSs). One challenge of these methods is the differentiation of TFBS pairs that are specific for a given sequence setfrom those that are ubiquitously appearing, rendering the results highlydependent on the choice of a proper background set. Here, we present an extensionof our previous PC-TraFF approach that estimates the background co-occurrence of any TF pair by preserving the (oligo-) nucleotide composition and, thus, the coreof TFBSs in the sequences of interest. Applying our approach to a simulated data set with implanted TFBS pairs, we could successfully identify them assequence-set specific under a variety of conditions. When we analyzed the geneexpression data sets of five breast cancer associated subtypes, the number ofoverlapping pairs could be dramatically reduced in comparison to our previousapproach. As a result, we could identify potentially cooperating transcriptional regulators that are characteristic for each of the five breast cancer subtypes.This indicates that our approach is able to discriminate specific potential TFcooperations against ubiquitously occurring combinations. The results obtainedwith our method may help to understand the genetic programs governing specificbiological processes such as the development of different tumor types.DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00189 PMCID: PMC5986914PMID: 29896218 