51. Biomaterials. 2018 Sep;177:149-160. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.05.051. Epub2018 May 31.Oxygen-boosted immunogenic photodynamic therapy with gold nanocages@manganesedioxide to inhibit tumor growth and metastases.Liang R(1), Liu L(2), He H(1), Chen Z(2), Han Z(1), Luo Z(2), Wu Z(1), ZhengM(3), Ma Y(4), Cai L(5).Author information: (1)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nanomedicine, Shenzhen Engineering Laboratory ofNanomedicine and Nanoformulations, CAS Key Lab for Health Informatics, Institute of Biomedicine and Biotechnology, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology(SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China.(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nanomedicine, Shenzhen Engineering Laboratory ofNanomedicine and Nanoformulations, CAS Key Lab for Health Informatics, Institute of Biomedicine and Biotechnology, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology(SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China; University ofChinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.(3)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nanomedicine, Shenzhen Engineering Laboratory ofNanomedicine and Nanoformulations, CAS Key Lab for Health Informatics, Institute of Biomedicine and Biotechnology, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology(SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China; Dongguan KeyLaboratory of Drug Design and Formulation Technology, Key Laboratory forNanomedicine, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 523808, China. Electronicaddress: mb.zheng@siat.ac.cn.(4)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nanomedicine, Shenzhen Engineering Laboratory ofNanomedicine and Nanoformulations, CAS Key Lab for Health Informatics, Institute of Biomedicine and Biotechnology, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology(SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China. Electronic address:yf.ma@siat.ac.cn.(5)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nanomedicine, Shenzhen Engineering Laboratory ofNanomedicine and Nanoformulations, CAS Key Lab for Health Informatics, Institute of Biomedicine and Biotechnology, Shenzhen Institutes of Advanced Technology(SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 518055, China. Electronic address:lt.cai@siat.ac.cn.Metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC) is an aggressive disease amongwomen worldwide, characterized by high mortality and poor prognosis despitesystemic therapy with radiation and chemotherapies. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) isan important strategy to eliminate the primary tumor, however its therapeuticefficacy against metastases and recurrence is still limited. Here, we employed a template method to develop the core-shell gold nanocage@manganese dioxide(AuNC@MnO2, AM) nanoparticles as tumor microenvironment responsive oxygenproducers and near-infrared (NIR)-triggered reactive oxygen species (ROS)generators for oxygen-boosted immunogenic PDT against mTNBC. In this platform,MnO2 shell degrades in acidic tumor microenvironment pH/H2O2 conditions andgenerates massive oxygen to boost PDT effect of AM nanoparticles under laserirradiation. Fluorescence (FL)/photoacoustic (PA)/magnetic resonance (MR)multimodal imaging confirms the effective accumulation of AM nanoparticles withsufficient oxygenation in tumor site to ameliorate local hypoxia. Moreover, theoxygen-boosted PDT effect of AM not only destroys primary tumor effectively butalso elicits immunogenic cell death (ICD) with damage-associated molecularpatterns (DAMPs) release, which subsequently induces DC maturation and effectorcells activation, thereby robustly evoking systematic antitumor immune responses against mTNBC. Hence, this oxygen-boosted immunogenic PDT nanosystem offers apromising approach to ablate primary tumor and simultaneously prevent tumormetastases via immunogenic abscopal effects.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.05.051 PMID: 29890364 