175. Curr Probl Cancer. 2018 May 7. pii: S0147-0272(18)30085-0. doi:10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2018.04.006. [Epub ahead of print]Extramedullary relapse and discordant CD19 expression between bone marrow andextramedullary sites in relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia after blinatumomab treatment.Demosthenous C(1), Lalayanni C(2), Iskas M(2), Douka V(2), Pastelli N(3),Anagnostopoulos A(2).Author information: (1)Department of Hematology and HCT Unit, General Hospital of Thessaloniki"George Papanicolaou", Thessaloniki, Greece. Electronic address:christosde@msn.com.(2)Department of Hematology and HCT Unit, General Hospital of Thessaloniki"George Papanicolaou", Thessaloniki, Greece.(3)Department of Pathology, General Hospital of Thessaloniki "GeorgePapanicolaou", Thessaloniki, Greece.Blinatumomab, a bispecific T-cell engager antibody construct targeting CD19, has been shown to improve the outcome in patients with relapsed and/or refractoryB-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Treatment with blinatumomab demonstratedsignificant survival benefit over chemotherapy, supporting its use as a bridgetherapy to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Unfortunately,following initial response, approximately 50% of responding patients eventuallyrelapse. At the time of failure, the majority of patients have CD19-positiveblasts, yet a concerning number of CD19-negative relapses has been reported. Inthe data reported herein, we present an interesting case of a 42-year-old patientwith primary refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia who achieved completemorphologic remission after one cycle of blinatumomab as a single agent. Notably,and in the absence of extramedullary disease history, the response in marrowcoincided with the emergence of CD19-positive extramedullary relapse includingsites of previous punctures for blood and bone marrow samples, as confirmed bybiopsy, as well as parenchymal organs (eg breast and lung). During the secondcycle of blinatumomab, a CD19-negative morphological relapse emerged. The loss ofCD19 was a transient event, as leukemic cells partially regained it afterchemotherapy. This study illustrates a challenging situation of relapsed andrefractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia complicated with extramedullary diseaseafter exposure to a bispecific T-cell engager antibody, such as blinatumomab.Physicians should maintain a high level of suspicion for the evolution ofextramedullary leukemia. This pattern of resistance and/or relapse toblinatumomab resembles the graft-versus-leukemia effect after allogeneictransplantation (stronger in blood and marrow than in other tissues). Mechanisms of resistance to blinatumomab are not yet clear. Combination treatments forrefractory patients and those at high risk for exramedullary disease may warrant future assessment.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.currproblcancer.2018.04.006 PMID: 29895435 