113. Front Pharmacol. 2018 May 30;9:390. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00390. eCollection2018.Identification of Steroidogenic Components Derived From Gardenia jasminoidesEllis Potentially Useful for Treating Postmenopausal Syndrome.Wang X(1), Wang GC(2), Rong J(1), Wang SW(1), Ng TB(3), Zhang YB(1), Lee KF(4),Zheng L(1), Wong HK(1), Yung KKL(5), Sze SCW(5).Author information: (1)School of Chinese Medicine, LKS Faculty of Medicine, The University of HongKong, Hong Kong, China.(2)Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine and Natural Products, College ofPharmacy, Jinan University, Guangzhou, China.(3)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, LKS Faculty of Medicine, TheUniversity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.(5)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong, China.Estrogen-stimulating principles have been demonstrated to relieve postmenopausal syndrome effectively. Gardenia jasminoides Ellis (GJE) is an herbal medicinepossessing multiple pharmacological effects on human health with low toxicity.However, the therapeutic effects of GJE on the management of postmenopausalsyndrome and its mechanism of action have not been fully elucidated. In thisstudy, network pharmacology-based approaches were employed to examinesteroidogenesis under the influence of GJE. In addition, the possibility oftoxicity of GJE was ruled out and four probable active compounds were predicted. In parallel, a chromatographic fraction of GJE with estrogen-stimulating effectwas identified and nine major compounds were isolated from this active fraction. Among the nine compounds, four of them were identified by network pharmacology,validating the use of network pharmacology to predict active compounds. Then the phenotypic approaches were utilized to verify that rutin, chlorogenic acid (CGA) and geniposidic acid (GA) exerted an estrogen-stimulating effect on ovariangranulosa cells. Furthermore, the results of target-based approaches indicatedthat rutin, CGA, and GA could up-regulate the FSHR-aromatase pathway in ovariangranulosa cells. The stimulation of estrogen production by rat ovarian granulosa cells under the influence of the three compounds underwent a decline when thefollicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) was blocked by antibodies againstthe receptor, indicating the involvement of FSHR in the estradiol-stimulatingactivity of the three compounds. The effects of the three compounds on estrogenbiosynthesis- related gene expression level were further confirmed by Westernblot assay. Importantly, the MTT results showed that exposure of breast cancercells to the three compounds resulted in reduction of cell viability,demonstrating the cytotoxicity of the three compounds. Collectively, rutin,chlorogenic acid and geniposidic acid may contribute to the therapeutic potentialof GJE for the treatment of postmenopausal syndrome.DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00390 PMCID: PMC5989419PMID: 29899696 