25. Med Sci Monit. 2018 Jun 12;24:3978-3986. doi: 10.12659/MSM.910794.Mediating Effects of Patients' Stigma and Self-Efficacy on Relationships Between Doctors' Empathy Abilities and Patients' Cellular Immunity in Male Breast Cancer Patients.Yang N(1)(2), Cao Y(3), Li X(1), Li S(1), Yan H(1), Geng Q(4).Author information: (1)School of Health Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei, China (mainland).(2)Institute of Medical Humanities, Peking University Health Science Center,Beijing, China (mainland).(3)Medical Insurance Office, Beijing Jishuitan Hospital/4th Medical College ofPeking University, Beijing, China (mainland).(4)Guangdong General Hospital, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China (mainland).BACKGROUND Doctors' empathy is closely related to patients' health. This studyaimed to examine whether patients' stigma and self-efficacy play a mediating rolein the relationship between doctors' empathy abilities and patients' cellularimmunity in male patients with breast cancer. MATERIAL AND METHODS Doctors'empathy scores and patients' demographic data, disease condition, stigma, andself-efficacy were measured. Patient T cell subset was tested at admission and 3 months after the operation and was compared by paired t test. The multivariatelinear regression model was applied to analyze the factors influencing the immuneindex. Pearson correlation analysis and structural equation modeling were appliedto explore the relationships among patients' stigma, self-efficacy, and cellular immunity and doctors' empathy abilities. RESULTS At the 2 time points, only thechange in NK subset was statistically significant, while the changes inpercentage of CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, and B cells were not statistically significant.The doctors' empathy abilities were negatively correlated with patients' stigmaand were positively related to patients' self-efficacy. Patients' stigma wasnegatively related to NK subset, while self-efficacy was positively associatedwith NK subset. Patients' stigma and self-efficacy played a mediating role in therelationship between doctors' empathy abilities and patients' NK subset, andstigma had a stronger effect than self-efficacy. CONCLUSIONS Doctors' empathyabilities affected breast cancer patients' NK subset through their stigma andself-efficacy. The mental health of male breast cancer patients need moreattention and empathy education needs to be improved.DOI: 10.12659/MSM.910794 PMCID: PMC6029513PMID: 29891832 