170. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 12. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-1952. [Epub ahead of print]Inhibition of HER2 Increases JAGGED1-dependent Breast Cancer Stem Cells: Role forMembrane JAGGED1.Shah D(#)(1), Wyatt D(#)(2), Baker AT(3), Simms P(4), Peiffer DS(3)(5), FernandezM(6), Rakha E(7), Green A(7), Filipovic A(8), Miele L(9), Osipo C(10)(6).Author information: (1)Molecular Pharmacology and Therapeutics Program, Loyola University Chicago:Health Sciences Division, Maywood, Illinois.(2)Oncology Research Institute, Loyola University Chicago: Health SciencesDivision, Maywood, Illinois.(3)Integrated Cell Biology Program, Loyola University Chicago: Health SciencesDivision, Maywood, Illinois.(4)FACS Core Facility, Office of Research Services, Loyola University Chicago:Health Sciences Division, Maywood, Illinois.(5)MD/PhD Program, Loyola University Chicago: Health Sciences Division, Maywood, Illinois.(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Loyola University Chicago: HealthSciences Division, Maywood, Illinois.(7)Departments of Histopathology and Medicine, University of Nottingham andUniversity Hospital NHS Trust, Nottingham, United Kingdom.(8)Emperial College of London, London, United Kingdom.(9)Department of Genetics, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, NewOrleans, Los Angeles.(10)Oncology Research Institute, Loyola University Chicago: Health SciencesDivision, Maywood, Illinois. cosipo@luc.edu.(#)Contributed equallyPurpose: HER2-positive breast cancer is driven by cells possessing stem-likeproperties of self-renewal and differentiation, referred to as cancer stem cells (CSC). CSCs are implicated in radiotherapy, chemotherapy resistance, and tumorrecurrence. NOTCH promotes breast CSC survival and self-renewal, andoverexpression of NOTCH1 and the NOTCH ligand JAGGED1 predict poor outcome.Resistance to anti-HER2 therapy in HER2+ breast cancer requires NOTCH1, and that combination of trastuzumab and a gamma secretase inhibitor (GSI) prevents tumorrelapse in xenograft models.Experimental Design: The current study investigatesmechanisms by which HER2 tyrosine kinase activity regulates NOTCH-dependent CSCsurvival and tumor initiation.Results: Lapatinib-mediated HER2 inhibition shifts the population of HER2+ breast cancer cells from low membrane JAGGED1 expression to higher levels, independent of sensitivity to anti-HER2 treatment within thebulk cell population. This increase in membrane JAGGED1 is associated with higherNOTCH receptor expression, activation, and enrichment of CSCs in vitro and invivo. Importantly, lapatinib treatment results in growth arrest and cell death ofJAGGED1 low-expressing cells while the JAGGED1 high-expressing cells continue to cycle. High membrane JAGGED1 protein expression predicts poor overall cumulative survival in women with HER2+ breast cancer.Conclusions: These results indicatethat higher membrane JAGGED1 expression may be used to either predict response toanti-HER2 therapy or for detection of NOTCH-sensitive CSCs posttherapy.Sequential blockade of HER2 followed by JAGGED1 or NOTCH could be more effective than simultaneous blockade to prevent drug resistance and tumor progression. ClinCancer Res; 1-13. ©2018 AACR.©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-1952 PMID: 29895705 