126. J Mol Endocrinol. 2018 Jun 13. pii: JME-18-0094. doi: 10.1530/JME-18-0094. [Epub ahead of print]Hormone Therapy and Breast Cancer: Emerging Steroid Receptor Mechanisms.Perkins MS(1), Louw-du Toit R(2), Africander D(3).Author information: (1)M Perkins, Biochemistry, Stellenbosch University Faculty of Science,Stellenbosch, South Africa.(2)R Louw-du Toit, Biochemistry, Stellenbosch University Faculty of Science,Stellenbosch, South Africa.(3)D Africander, Biochemistry, Stellenbosch University Faculty of Science,Stellenbosch, South Africa drho@sun.ac.za.Although hormone therapy is widely used by millions of women to relieve symptoms of menopause, it has been associated with several side-effects such as coronaryheart disease, stroke and increased invasive breast cancer risk. Theseside-effects have caused many women to seek alternatives to conventional hormone therapy, including the controversial custom-compounded bioidentical hormonetherapy suggested to not increase breast cancer risk. Historically estrogens and the estrogen receptor were considered the principal factors promoting breastcancer development and progression, however, a role for other members of thesteroid receptor family in breast cancer pathogenesis is now evident, withemerging studies revealing an interplay between some steroid receptors. In thisreview, we discuss examples of hormone therapy used for the relief of menopausal symptoms, highlighting the distinction between conventional hormone therapy andcustom-compounded bioidentical hormone therapy. Moreover, we highlight the factthat not all hormones have been evaluated for an association with increasedbreast cancer risk. We also summarize the current knowledge regarding the role ofsteroid receptors in mediating the carcinogenic effects of hormones used inmenopausal hormone therapy, with special emphasis on the influence of theinterplay or crosstalk between steroid receptors. Unraveling the intertwinednature of steroid hormone receptor signaling pathways in breast cancer biology isof utmost importance, considering that breast cancer is the most prevalent canceramong women worldwide. Moreover, understanding these mechanisms may reveal novel prevention or treatment options, and lead to the development of new hormonetherapies that does not cause increased breast cancer risk.DOI: 10.1530/JME-18-0094 PMID: 29899079 