Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest7. J Cancer Res Ther. 2018 Apr-Jun;14(3):537-542. doi: 10.4103/0973-1482.167614.Correlation of proliferative index with various clinicopathologic prognosticparameters in primary breast carcinoma: A study from North India.Marwah N(1), Batra A(1), Marwah S(2), Gupta V(1), Shakya S(3), Sen R(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Pt. B.D. Sharma, PGIMS, Rohtak, Haryana, India.(2)Department of Surgery, Pt. B.D. Sharma, PGIMS, Rohtak, Haryana, India.(3)Pathologist, General Hospital, Sirsa, Haryana, India.Aim: Routine assessment of cell proliferation is recommended in the pathologicevaluation for all breast cancers. Considering the poor reproducibility andinterobserver variability in mitotic counts, Ki-67 is an easily available andreliable substitute for mitotic counts and has been shown to have a significantrelationship with the histologic grade of malignancy and the mitotic activity of tumors. Our study aimed at exploring Ki-67 expression and studying itscorrelation with other established prognostic parameters.Materials and Methods: Seventy-five cases of primary breast cancer undergoingradical or modified radical mastectomy constituted the study group. Estrogenreceptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor receptor2 (HER2)/neu, and Ki-67 was assessed in each case. Ki-67 labeling index(Ki-67-LI) was estimated as the number of positive nuclei divided by total numberof nuclei scanned counting a minimum of 1000 cells in 10 selected high powerfields that displayed the highest immunoreactivity and was expressed aspercentage. Ki-67 expression was correlated with various clinicopathologicprognostic parameters including age, tumor size, tumor type, axillary lymph node status, and histologic tumor grade.Results: A statistically significant direct association was observed betweenKi-67-LI and tumor size, histologic grade and Nottingham prognostic index. Astatistically significant inverse association was observed between Ki-67-LI andER and PR expression. However, no association was observed between Ki-67-LI andmenopausal status, lymph node involvement and HER2/neu expression.Conclusion: Based on our results, we concluded that modified Bloom-Richardson(MBR) grading has been recognized as a treatment related indicator. The accuracy and reliability in grading have always been a matter of concern, hence, thereproducibility of grading should be enhanced. Ki-67-a proliferation marker iseasily identified and provides comparable accurate information. In contrast topoor reproducibility of mitotic counts, Ki-67 can achieve high agreement between pathologists; is more reproducible; adds complementary value to the MBR gradingsystem and correlates well with other clinicopathologic parameters. It may act asa significant prognostic indicator for routine clinical use and be helpful forselection of adjuvant treatment. It can also add value in categorizing Grade IItumors into two prognostic subgroups with prognosis equivalent to Grades I andIII, respectively.DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.167614 PMID: 29893312 