Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.49. J Med Internet Res. 2018 Jun 14;20(6):e222. doi: 10.2196/jmir.9709.Sharing and Empathy in Digital Spaces: Qualitative Study of Online Health Forums for Breast Cancer and Motor Neuron Disease (Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis).Hargreaves S(1), Bath PA(1), Duffin S(1), Ellis J(2).Author information: (1)Health Informatics Research Group, Information School, University ofSheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom.(2)Department of Sociological Studies, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UnitedKingdom.BACKGROUND: The availability of an increasing number of online health forums has altered the experience of living with a health condition, as more people are now able to connect and support one another. Empathy is an important component ofpeer-to-peer support, although little is known about how empathy develops andoperates within online health forums.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this paper is to explore how empathy develops and operates within two online health forums for differing health conditions: breast cancerand motor neuron disease (MND), also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.METHODS: This qualitative study analyzed data from two sources: interviews withforum users and downloaded forum posts. Data were collected from two onlinehealth forums provided by UK charities: Breast Cancer Care and the Motor Neurone Disease Association. We analyzed 84 threads from the breast cancer forum and 52from the MND forum. Threads were purposively sampled to reflect variedexperiences (eg, illness stages, topics of conversation, and usercharacteristics). Semistructured interviews were conducted with 14 Breast Cancer Care forum users and five users of the MND forum. All datasets were analyzedthematically using Braun and Clarke's six-phase approach and combined totriangulate the analysis.RESULTS: We found that empathy develops and operates through shared experiencesand connections. The development of empathy begins outside the forum withexperiences of illness onset and diagnosis, creating emotional and informational needs. Users came to the forum and found their experiences and needs were shared and understood by others, setting the empathetic tone and supportive ethos of theforum. The forum was viewed as both a useful and meaningful space in which theycould share experiences, information, and emotions, and receive empatheticsupport within a supportive and warm atmosphere. Empathy operated throughconnections formed within this humane space based on similarity, relationships,and shared feelings. Users felt a need to connect to users who they felt werelike themselves (eg, people sharing the same specific diagnosis). They formedrelationships with other users. They connected based on the emotionalunderstanding of ill health. Within these connections, empathic communicationflourished.CONCLUSIONS: Empathy develops and operates within shared experiences andconnections, enabled by structural possibilities provided by the forums givingusers the opportunity and means to interact within public, restricted, and moreprivate spaces, as well as within groups and in one-to-one exchanges. Theatmosphere and feeling of both sites and perceived audiences were importantfacilitators of empathy, with users sharing a perception of virtual communitiesof caring and supportive people. Our findings are of value to organizationshosting health forums and to health professionals signposting patients toadditional sources of support.©Sarah Hargreaves, Peter A Bath, Suzanne Duffin, Julie Ellis. Originallypublished in the Journal of Medical Internet Research (http://www.jmir.org),14.06.2018.DOI: 10.2196/jmir.9709 PMCID: PMC6024105PMID: 29903695 