174. J Ethnopharmacol. 2018 Oct 5;224:359-372. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.06.009. Epub2018 Jun 15.Integrated in silico-in vitro strategy for screening of some traditional Egyptianplants for human aromatase inhibitors.Dawood HM(1), Ibrahim RS(1), Shawky E(2), Hammoda HM(1), Metwally AM(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University,Egypt.(2)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University,Egypt. Electronic address: shawkyeman@yahoo.com.ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Aromatase enzyme (CYP19) is widely known as acritical target protein for treating hormone-dependent breast cancer. Naturalproducts from traditional medicinal plants continue to be an active source ofaromatase inhibitors. Meanwhile, high cost of experimental work and low hit rate associated with HTS have stimulated the implementation of in-silico virtualscreening to resolve these pitfalls, where coupling of both classical wet labprocedure and VS may offer a more deepened access to bioactive compounds withless work and time waste.AIM OF THE STUDY: In this work, a sequential structure-based and ligand-basedvirtual screening strategy was utilized for investigating an in-house database of1720 phytochemical constituents of 29 medicinal plants and natural products used in traditional Egyptian medicine to search for compounds with the potential to beused as inhibitors of the human aromatase enzyme.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The suggested strategy included using Glide docking withits feature 'extra precision (XP)' for carrying out structure-based virtualscreening (SBVS) where the resulting hits were further promoted to ligand-basedvirtual screening (LBVS) through the development of two pharmacophore and QSARmodels; one for steroidal and the other for non-steroidal aromatase inhibitors.RESULTS: The combined results revealed that Artemisia annua, Zingiber officinale,Cicer arietinum, Annona muricata and Vitex agnus castus were the top scoringplants in terms of in-silico activity scores, respectively. The hydro-alcoholicextracts and different solvent fractions of the top scoring plants weresubsequently tested experimentally for their aromatase inhibitory activity, bythe aid of in-vitro fluorometric assay. The rank ordering of the activities forthe plants agreed with the ordering predicted on the basis of SBVS and LBVSworkflow implemented.CONCLUSION: The suggested strategy provides a reliable means of prospectingin-silico screening of natural products databases in the search for new dug leadsas aromatase inhibitors. The hits so obtained can then be subjected to furtherphytochemical studies, to isolate and identify suitable compounds for furtherin-vitro testing.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2018.06.009 PMID: 29909120 