Conflict of interest statement: Bio-Tech Pharmacal was a commercial source offunding. It did not have any relationship with GrassrootsHealth, UC San Diego,MUSC, Inova Schar, or Creighton University with regard to employment, patents,projects in development, or products marketed. Representatives of this source didnot review the manuscript or play any role in design, analysis, or writing of themanuscript and had no control over any decision to publish it. This does notalter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.15. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2018 Mar-Apr;56(2):180-185.Gene signatures for breast cancer, clinical utility and therapeutic applications[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]Vargas-Aguilar VM(1), Arroyo-Alvarez K.Author information: (1)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Unidad de Medicina Familiar No. 17,Servicio de Planificación Familiar. Ciudad de México, Méxicov_vargas_aguilar@hotmail.comGene signatures quantify hormone receptors and proliferation genes, combiningmultivariate prediction models. Hormone-negative tumors have greaterproliferation and the prognostic value is limited. The first generation ofprognostic signatures (Oncotype DX, MammaPrint, Genomic Degree Index) predictrecurrence at 5 years. Subsequent tests (Prosigna, EndoPredict, Breast CancerIndex) have better prognostic value for recurrence and are predictive of earlyrelapse. There are no useful prognostic genetic tests for hormone-negativetumors, or predictors of response to treatment. The recent expansion ofhigh-performance technology platforms including the low-cost sequencing oftumor-derived DNA and circulating RNA and the reliable rapid quantification ofmicroRNAs offer new opportunities to build prediction models.Publisher: Las firmas genéticas cuantifican receptores hormonales y genes deproliferación, combinando modelos de predicción multivariados. Tumoreshormono-negativos tienen mayor proliferación y el valor pronóstico es limitado.La primera generación de firmas de pronóstico (Oncotype DX, MammaPrint, Índice degrado genómico) predicen recurrencia a 5 años. Las pruebas subsecuentes(Prosigna, EndoPredict, Índice de Cáncer de Mama) poseen mejor valor pronósticopara recurrencia y son predictivas de recaída temprana. No existen pruebasgenéticas pronósticas útiles para tumores hormono-negativos, ni predictores derespuesta al tratamiento. La reciente expansión de las plataformas tecnológicasde alto rendimiento incluyendo la secuenciación de bajo costo de DNA derivado deltumor y RNA circulante y la cuantificación rápida fiable de microARN ofrecennuevas oportunidades para construir modelos de predicción.PMID: 29906029 