193. Genet Med. 2018 Jun 15. doi: 10.1038/s41436-018-0028-2. [Epub ahead of print]Evaluating the role of public health in implementation of genomics-relatedrecommendations: a case study of hereditary cancers using the CDC Science Impact Framework.Green RF(1), Ari M(2), Kolor K(3), Dotson WD(3), Bowen S(3), Habarta N(4),Rodriguez JL(5), Richardson LC(5), Khoury MJ(3).Author information: (1)Carter Consulting and Office of Public Health Genomics, Division of PublicHealth Information Dissemination, Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, andLaboratory Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta,Georgia, USA. grf1@cdc.gov.(2)Office of the Director, Office of the Associate Director for Science, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.(3)Office of Public Health Genomics, Division of Public Health InformationDissemination, Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services,Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.(4)Division of Public Health Information Dissemination, Center for Surveillance, Epidemiology, and Laboratory Services, Centers for Disease Control andPrevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.(5)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic DiseasePrevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,Atlanta, Georgia, USA.Public health plays an important role in ensuring access to interventions thatcan prevent disease, including the implementation of evidence-based genomicrecommendations. We used the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)Science Impact Framework to trace the impact of public health activities andpartnerships on the implementation of the 2009 Evaluation of Genomic Applicationsin Practice and Prevention (EGAPP) Lynch Syndrome screening recommendation andthe 2005 and 2013 United States Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) BRCA1 andBRCA2 testing recommendations.The EGAPP and USPSTF recommendations have each beencited by >300 peer-reviewed publications. CDC funds selected states to buildcapacity to integrate these recommendations into public health programs, through education, policy, surveillance, and partnerships. Most state cancer controlplans include genomics-related goals, objectives, or strategies. Since the EGAPP recommendation, major public and private payers now provide coverage for LynchSyndrome screening for all newly diagnosed colorectal cancers. Nationalguidelines and initiatives, including Healthy People 2020, included similarrecommendations and cited the EGAPP and USPSTF recommendations. However,disparities in implementation based on race, ethnicity, and rural residenceremain challenges. Public health achievements in promoting the evidence-based useof genomics for the prevention of hereditary cancers can inform futureapplications of genomics in public health.DOI: 10.1038/s41436-018-0028-2 PMID: 29907802 