63. Leuk Res. 2018 Jun 7;70:79-86. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2018.06.005. [Epub ahead ofprint]Antimalarial drugs trigger lysosome-mediated cell death in chronic lymphocyticleukemia (CLL) cells.Das S(1), Dielschneider R(2), Chanas-LaRue A(2), Johnston JB(3), Gibson SB(4).Author information: (1)Research Institute of Oncology and Hematology, CancerCare Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(2)Research Institute of Oncology and Hematology, CancerCare Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; Department of Immunology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,Manitoba, Canada.(3)Research Institute of Oncology and Hematology, CancerCare Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; Department of Internal Medicine, University of Manitoba,Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(4)Research Institute of Oncology and Hematology, CancerCare Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; Department of Immunology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,Manitoba, Canada; Department of Biochemistry and Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Electronic address:spencer.gibson@umanitoba.ca.Lysosomes are the most acidic vesicles within mammalian cells and are promisingtargets for the treatment of breast cancer, glioblastomas and acute myeloidleukemia (AML). Our previous studies have shown that chronic lymphocytic leukemia(CLL) cells are also sensitive to lysosome disruption and cell death, bysiramesine or chemotherapy. In the present study, we screened the antimalarialdrugs, mefloquine, atovaquone, primaquine, and tafenoquine, for their effects on lysosome disruption and cytotoxicity in primary CLL cells. We found thatmefloquine and tafenoquine could permeabilize lysosome membranes and induce cell death at doses that are clinically achievable. In contrast, these agents had lesseffect on normal B cells. Tafenoquine was most effective at inducing cell death, and this was associated with increased formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS)and lipid peroxidation. Addition of ROS scavengers blocked both tafenoquine- and mefloquine-induced cell death. Moreover, blocking the activity of cathepsinsreleased from the lysosomes decreased tafenoquine-induced cell death. Takentogether, lysosome disruption using antimalarial drugs is a novel approach forthe treatment of CLL.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2018.06.005 PMID: 29902707 