8. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2018 Sep;1863(9):1057-1067. doi:10.1016/j.bbalip.2018.06.010. Epub 2018 Jun 12.Fatty acid-binding protein 5 (FABP5) promotes lipolysis of lipid droplets, denovo fatty acid (FA) synthesis and activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB)signaling in cancer cells.Senga S(1), Kobayashi N(2), Kawaguchi K(1), Ando A(3), Fujii H(4).Author information: (1)Department of Bioscience and Food Production Science, InterdisciplinaryGraduate School of Science and Technology, Shinshu University, Japan.(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Graduate School of Science andTechnology, Shinshu University, Japan.(3)Department of Bioscience & Biotechnology, Shinshu University, Japan.(4)Department of Bioscience and Food Production Science, InterdisciplinaryGraduate School of Science and Technology, Shinshu University, Japan; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Graduate School of Science and Technology, ShinshuUniversity, Japan; Department of Bioscience & Biotechnology, Shinshu University, Japan; Department of Interdisciplinary Genome Sciences and Cell Metabolism,Institute for Biomedical Sciences, Interdisciplinary Cluster for Cutting-EdgeResearch, Shinshu University, Minami-minowa, Kami-ina, Nagano 399-4598, Japan.Electronic address: hfujii@shinshu-u.ac.jp.Fatty acid-binding proteins (FABPs) are involved in binding and storinghydrophobic ligands such as long-chain fatty acids, as well as transporting them to the appropriate compartments in the cell. Epidermal fatty acid-binding protein(FABP5) is an intracellular lipid-binding protein that is abundantly expressed inadipocytes and macrophages. Previous studies have revealed that the FABP5expression level is closely related to malignancy in various types of cancer.However, its precise functions in the metabolisms of cancer cells remain unclear.Here, we revealed that FABP5 knockdown significantly induced downregulation ofthe genes expression, such as hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL), monoacylglycerollipase (MAGL), elongation of long-chain fatty acid member 6 (Elovl6), andacyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1), which are involved inaltered lipid metabolism, lipolysis, and de novo FA synthesis in highlyaggressive prostate and breast cancer cells. Moreover, we demonstrated that FABP5induced inflammation and cytokine production through the nuclear factor-kappa Bsignaling pathway activated by reactive oxygen species and protein kinase C inPC-3 and MDA-MB-231 cells. Thus, FABP5 might regulate lipid quality and/orquantity to promote aggressiveness such as cell growth, invasiveness, survival,and inflammation in prostate and breast cancer cells. In the present study, wehave revealed for the first time that high expression of FABP5 plays a criticalrole in alterations of lipid metabolism, leading to cancer development andmetastasis in highly aggressive prostate and breast cancer cells.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2018.06.010 PMID: 29906613 