189. Br J Pharmacol. 2018 Jun 16. doi: 10.1111/bph.14393. [Epub ahead of print]Glycyrrhizin has a high likelihood to be a victim of drug-drug interactionsmediated by hepatic organic anion-transporting polypeptide 1B1/1B3.Dong J(1)(2), Olaleye OE(1), Jiang R(1), Li J(1), Lu C(3), Du F(1), Xu F(1), YangJ(1), Wang F(1), Jia W(1), Li C(1)(2).Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory of Drug Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica,Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences,Beijing, China.(3)Department of DMPK, Sanofi, Cambridge, MA, USA.BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Intravenous glycyrrhizin, having anti-inflammatory andhepatoprotective properties, is incorporated into the management of liverdiseases in China. This investigation was designed to elucidate the molecularmechanism underlying hepatobiliary excretion of glycyrrhizin and to investigateits potential for drug-drug interactions on organic anion-transportingpolypeptide (OATP)1B.EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Human transporters mediating hepatobiliary excretion ofglycyrrhizin were characterized at the cellular and vesicular levels and comparedwith rat hepatic transporters. The role of Oatp1b2 in glycyrrhizin's elimination and pharmacokinetics was evaluated in rats using the inhibitor rifampin. Aphysiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model for glycyrrhizin,incorporating transporter-mediated hepatobiliary excretion, was established andapplied to predict potential drug-drug interactions related to glycyrrhizin inhumans.KEY RESULTS: Hepatobiliary excretion of glycyrrhizin involved human OATP1B1/1B3(Oatp1b2 in rats)-mediated hepatic uptake from blood and human multidrugresistance-associated protein (MRP)2/breast cancer resistance protein (ABCP)/bilesalt export pump (BSEP)/multidrug resistance protein 1 (Mrp2/Abcp/Bsep inrats)-mediated hepatic efflux into bile. In rats, rifampin impaired hepaticuptake of glycyrrhizin significantly increasing its systemic exposure.Glomerular-filtration-based renal excretion of glycyrrhizin was slow due toextensive protein binding in plasma. Quantitative analysis using the PBPK modeldemonstrated that OATP1B1/1B3 have critical roles in the pharmacokinetics ofglycyrrhizin, which is highly likely to be a victim of drug-drug interactionswhen co-administered with potent dual inhibitors of these transporters.CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Transporter-mediated hepatobiliary excretiongoverns glycyrrhizin's elimination and pharmacokinetics. Understandingglycyrrhizin's potential drug-drug interactions on OATP1B1/1B3 should enhance thetherapeutic outcome of glycyrrhizin-containing drug combinations on liverdiseases.© 2018 The British Pharmacological Society.DOI: 10.1111/bph.14393 PMID: 29908072 