47. BMJ Open. 2018 Jun 14;8(6):e022138. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-022138.Perceptions of overdetection of breast cancer among women 70 years of age andolder in the USA: a mixed-methods analysis.Pappadis MR(1)(2), Volk RJ(3), Krishnan S(4), Weller SC(2)(5)(6), JaramilloE(2)(7), Hoover DS(8), Giordano SH(3)(9), Tan A(10), Sheffield KM(11), HoustenAJ(3), Goodwin JS(2)(7).Author information: (1)Division of Rehabilitation Sciences, School of Health Professions, TheUniversity of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas, USA.(2)Sealy Center on Aging, The University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston,Texas, USA.(3)Department of Health Services Research, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(4)Division of Physical Therapy, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, EmoryUniversity School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.(5)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, The University ofTexas Medical Branch, Galveston, USA.(6)Department of Family Medicine, The University of Texas Medical Branch,Galveston, Texas, USA.(7)Department of Internal Medicine and Division of Geriatrics, The University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas, USA.(8)Department of Health Disparities Research, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(9)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA.(10)College of Nursing, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA.(11)Global Patient Outcomes and Real World Evidence, Eli Lilly and Company,Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.OBJECTIVES: Current research on the perceptions of overdiagnosis or overdetectionof breast cancer has largely been conducted outside of the USA and with womenyounger than 70 years.Therefore, we explored older women's perceptions about the concept of overdetection of breast cancer and its influence on future screeningintentions.DESIGN: Mixed-methods analysis using purposive sampling based on race/ethnicity, age and educational level. Semistructured interviews, including two hypothetical scenarios illustrating benefits and harms of screening and overdetection, wereanalysed using inductive and deductive thematic approaches. An inferentialclustering technique was used to assess overall patterns in narrative content by sociodemographic characteristics, personal screening preferences or understandingof overdetection.SETTING: Houston/Galveston, Texas, USA.PARTICIPANTS: 59 English-speaking women aged 70 years and older with no priorhistory of breast cancer.RESULTS: Very few women were familiar with the concept of overdetection andovertreatment. After the scenarios were presented, half of the women stilldemonstrated a lack of understanding of the concept of overdetection. Many women expressed suspicion of the concept, equating it to rationing. Women who showedunderstanding of overdetection were more likely to express an intent todiscontinue screening, although 86% of the women stated that hearing aboutoverdetection did not influence their screening decision. Themes identified didnot differ by race/ethnicity, education, age or screening preferences.Differences were identified between women who understood overdetection and women who did not (r=0.23, p<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Many older women did not understand the concept of overdetection, inaddition to being suspicious of or resistant to the concept. Providing olderwomen with descriptions of overdetection may not be sufficient to influencescreening intentions.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-022138 PMCID: PMC6009543PMID: 29903800 