65. Exp Cell Res. 2018 Sep 1;370(1):68-77. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.06.005. Epub2018 Jun 11.Nucleolin is expressed in patient-derived samples and glioblastoma cells,enabling improved intracellular drug delivery and cytotoxicity.Balça-Silva J(1), do Carmo A(2), Tão H(3), Rebelo O(4), Barbosa M(5), Moura-Neto V(6), Sarmento-Ribeiro AB(7), Lopes MC(8), Moreira JN(9).Author information: (1)CNC.IBILI - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology and Institute forBiomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Coimbra, Portugal; FMUC - Faculty ofMedicine, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; IECPN - Instituto Estadual doCérebro Paulo Niemeyer, Secretaria de Estado de Saúde, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.Electronic address: joanabalca.silva@gmail.com.(2)CNC.IBILI - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology and Institute forBiomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Coimbra, Portugal; CHUC - ClinicalPathology Department, Coimbra Hospital and Universitary Center, Coimbra,Portugal. Electronic address: analiacarmo@gmail.com.(3)CHUC - Neurosurgery Service, Coimbra Hospital and Universitary Center,Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: herminiotao@gmail.com.(4)CHUC - Neuropathology Laboratory, Neurology Service, Coimbra Hospital andUniversitary Center, Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address:olinda@huc.min-saude.pt.(5)FMUC - Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; CHUC -Neurosurgery Service, Coimbra Hospital and Universitary Center, Coimbra,Portugal. Electronic address: marcosbarbosa@netcabo.pt.(6)IECPN - Instituto Estadual do Cérebro Paulo Niemeyer, Secretaria de Estado de Saúde, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Electronic address: vivaldomouraneto@gmail.com.(7)FMUC, Laboratory of Oncobiology and Hematology and University Clinic ofHematology/ Faculty of Medicine, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal; iCBR, CIMAGO - Coimbra Institute for Clinical and Biomedical Research - Group ofEnvironment, Genetics and Oncobiology - FMUC, Coimbra, Portugal; CHUC - Clinical Hematology Department/Centro Hospitalar e Universitário de Coimbra, Coimbra,Portugal; CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: absarmento@fmed.uc.pt.(8)CNC.IBILI - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology and Institute forBiomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Coimbra, Portugal; FFUC - Faculty ofPharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address:celeste@ff.uc.pt.(9)CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra,Coimbra, Portugal; FFUC - Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra,Portugal. Electronic address: jmoreira@ff.uc.pt.One of the major challenges in Glioblastoma (GBM) therapy relates with theexistence of glioma stem-like cells (GSCs), known to be chemo- andradio-resistant. GSCs and non-stem GBM cells have the ability to interchange,emphasizing the importance of identifying common molecular targets among thosecell sub-populations. Nucleolin overexpression has been recently associated with breast cancer sub-populations with different stem-like phenotype. The goal ofthis work was to evaluate the potential of cell surface nucleolin as a target in GBM cells. Different levels of nucleolin expression resulted in a 3.4-fold higherassociation of liposomes targeting nucleolin (functionalized with thenucleolin-binding F3 peptide) in U87, relative to GBM11 glioblastoma cells.Moreover, nucleolin was suggested as a potential marker in OCT4-, NANOG-positive GSC, and in the corresponding non-stem GBM cells, as well as in SOX2-positiveGSC. Doxorubicin delivered by liposomes targeting nucleolin enabled a level ofcytotoxicity that was 2.5- or 4.6-fold higher compared to the non-targetedcounterparts. Importantly, an overexpression of nucleolin was also observed incells of patient-derived samples, as compared with normal brain. Overall, theseresults suggested nucleolin as a therapeutic target in GBM.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.06.005 PMID: 29902537 