37. Wellcome Open Res. 2018 May 2;3:51. doi: 10.12688/wellcomeopenres.14392.1.eCollection 2018.Proteome-wide analysis of protein abundance and turnover remodelling duringoncogenic transformation of human breast epithelial cells.Ly T(#)(1)(2)(3), Endo A(#)(1)(2)(4), Brenes A(1)(2), Gierlinski M(1)(2), AfzalV(1)(2), Pawellek A(1)(2), Lamond AI(1)(2).Author information: (1)Centre for Gene Regulation and Expression, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.(2)Laboratory for Quantitative Proteomics, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.(3)Wellcome Centre for Cell Biology, School of Biological Sciences, University ofEdinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.(4)Cell Biology Center, Institute of Innovative Research, Tokyo Institute ofTechnology, Tokyo, Japan.(#)Contributed equallyBackground: Viral oncogenes and mutated proto-oncogenes are potent drivers ofcancer malignancy. Downstream of the oncogenic trigger are alterations in proteinproperties that give rise to cellular transformation and the acquisition ofmalignant cellular phenotypes. Developments in mass spectrometry enablelarge-scale, multidimensional characterisation of proteomes. Such techniquescould provide an unprecedented, unbiased view of how oncogene activation remodelsa human cell proteome. Methods: Using quantitative MS-based proteomics andcellular assays, we analysed how transformation induced by activating v-Srckinase remodels the proteome and cellular phenotypes of breast epithelial(MCF10A) cells. SILAC MS was used to comprehensively characterise the MCF10Aproteome and to measure v-Src-induced changes in protein abundance across seventime-points (1-72 hrs). We used pulse-SILAC MS ( Boisvert et al., 2012), tocompare protein synthesis and turnover in control and transformed cells.Follow-on experiments employed a combination of cellular and functional assays tocharacterise the roles of selected Src-responsive proteins. Results: Src-induced transformation changed the expression and/or turnover levels of ~3% of proteins, affecting ~1.5% of the total protein molecules in the cell. Transformationincreased the average rate of proteome turnover and disrupted proteinhomeostasis. We identify distinct classes of protein kinetics in response to Src activation. We demonstrate that members of the polycomb repressive complex 1(PRC1) are important regulators of invasion and migration in MCF10A cells. ManySrc-regulated proteins are present in low abundance and some are regulatedpost-transcriptionally. The signature of Src-responsive proteins is highlypredictive of poor patient survival across multiple cancer types. Open access to search and interactively explore all these proteomic data is provided via the EPDdatabase ( www.peptracker.com/epd). Conclusions: We present the firstcomprehensive analysis measuring how protein expression and protein turnover isaffected by cell transformation, providing a detailed picture at the proteinlevel of the consequences of activation of an oncogene.DOI: 10.12688/wellcomeopenres.14392.1 PMCID: PMC5989152PMID: 29904729 