32. Psychooncology. 2018 Jun 15. doi: 10.1002/pon.4796. [Epub ahead of print]Self-reported chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment compared with cognitivecomplaints following menopause.Vega JN(1), Dumas J(2), Newhouse PA(1)(3).Author information: (1)Center for Cognitive Medicine, Department of Psychiatry and BehavioralSciences, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, TN, USA.(2)Clinical Neuroscience Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University ofVermont Robert Larner, M.D. College of Medicine, Burlington, VT, USA.(3)Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Center, Veterans Affairs TennesseeValley Health System, Nashville, TN, USA.OBJECTIVE: Cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI) is commonly reportedfollowing the administration of cancer treatment. Current longitudinal studies,primarily in women with breast cancer, suggest that up to 35% to 60% of patients exhibit persistent CRCI (pCRCI) following completion of chemotherapy. Complaints of subjective cognitive decline (SCD) are also commonly reported by women during and following the menopause transition in noncancer patients. Although themajority of evidence for cognitive difficulties in cancer patients and survivors is attributed to chemotherapy, there is growing evidence to suggest thatmenopausal status can also influence cognitive function in cancer patients.METHODS: Given that menopausal status may be contributing to pCRCI, we compared agroup of primarily postmenopausal women with pCRCI to 2 groups of postmenopausal women: women who endorse menopause-associated SCD (maSCD+) and women who do not(maSCD-) to explore the similarities/differences between maSCD and pCRCI and the potential role of menopause in pCRCI.RESULTS: Persistent CRCI participants report more severe SCD symptoms than women after natural menopause, despite being on average 2.5-year postchemotherapy,supporting previous findings that CRCI can persist for months to years aftercompleting treatment. Persistent CRCI participants not only endorsed greater SCD but also exhibited objective performance differences. In addition, pCRCIparticipants endorsed significantly greater menopausal symptoms compared witheither maSCD group. Results were not related to menopausal status prior tochemotherapy or current endocrine therapy use.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that while menopausal symptoms may contribute to SCD experienced by cancer patients after chemotherapy, they do not fullyaccount for pCRCI.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4796 PMID: 29904964 