Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.48. BMJ Open. 2018 Jun 14;8(6):e021174. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-021174.Should women aged 70-74 be invited to participate in screening mammography? Areport on two Australian community juries.Degeling C(1)(2), Barratt A(2)(3), Aranda S(4), Bell R(5), Doust J(6), HoussamiN(2)(3), Hersch J(2)(3), Sakowsky R(7), Entwistle V(8), Carter SM(1)(2).Author information: (1)Research for Social Change, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, New SouthWales, Australia.(2)Wiser Healthcare, Sydney, Australia.(3)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,Australia.(4)The Cancer Council Australia, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.(5)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Healthand Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.(6)Centre for Research in Evidence-Based Practice, Faculty of Health Sciences andMedicine, Bond University, Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia.(7)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.(8)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.OBJECTIVE: To elicit informed views from Australian women aged 70-74 regardingthe acceptability of ceasing to invite women their age to participate ingovernment-funded mammography screening (BreastScreen).DESIGN: Two community juries held in 2017.SETTING: Greater Sydney, a metropolis of 4.5 million people in New South Wales,Australia.PARTICIPANTS: 34 women aged 70-74 with no personal history of breast cancer,recruited by random digit dialling and previously randomly recruited list-basedsamples.MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Jury verdict and rationale in response to structured questions. We transcribed audio-recorded jury proceedings and identified central reasons for the jury's decision.RESULTS: The women's average age was 71.5 years. Participants were of diversesociocultural backgrounds, with the sample designed to include women of lowerlevels of educational attainment. Both juries concluded by majority verdict (16-2and 10-6) that BreastScreen should continue to send invitations and promotescreening to their age group. Reasons given for the majority position include:(1) sending the invitations shows that society still cares about older women,empowers them to access preventive health services and recognises increasing and varied life expectancy; (2) screening provides women with information thatenables choice and (3) if experts cannot agree, the conservative approach is tomaintain the status quo until the evidence is clear. Reasons for the minorityposition were the potential for harms through overdiagnosis and misallocation of scarce health resources.CONCLUSIONS: Preventive programmes such as mammography screening are likely tohave significant symbolic value once they are socially embedded. Arguments forprogramme de-implementation emphasising declining benefit because of limited lifeexpectancy and the risks of overdiagnosis seem unlikely to resonate with healthy older women. In situations where there is no consensus among experts on the valueof established screening programmes, people may strongly prefer receivinginformation about their health and having the opportunity make their own choices.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-021174 PMCID: PMC6009633PMID: 29903796 