84. Mol Med Rep. 2018 Aug;18(2):1345-1352. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9119. Epub 2018 Jun 1.Telomerase reverse transcriptase induced thyroid carcinoma cell proliferationthrough PTEN/AKT signaling pathway.Zhang H(1), Hu N(2).Author information: (1)The First Sector of Department of Thyroid Breast Surgery, Northern Branch ofJingmen No. 1 People's Hospital, Jingmen, Hubei 448000, P.R. China.(2)The Second Sector of Department of Thyroid Breast Surgery, Southern Branch of Jingmen No. 1 People's Hospital, Jingmen, Hubei 448000, P.R. China.Thyroid carcinoma is the most common endocrine malignant tumor in the world, and so, there is a requirement to develop novel molecular targets for thyroid cancer diagnosis and treatment. Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) was revealed to promote cell proliferation in a number of types of cell. To evaluate whether and how TERT functioned on papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) cell proliferation, thepresent study constructed TERT over‑expression [recombined (r)TERT plasmid group]and interference [small interfering RNA (si)‑TERT group] models by liposometransfection respectively to study the molecular mechanisms. The transfectionefficiency was first detected by reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerasechain reaction (RT‑qPCR) and western blotting to analyze TERT levels comparedwith the negative control (NC) and control groups. Then MTT andcarboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester assays were performed todetermine living cell proliferation and total cell proliferation respectively.Propidium iodide assay was used to detect alterations in cell cycle progression. RT‑qPCR and western blotting were performed to detect associated factorvariation. The results demonstrated that, following the generation of TERToverexpression or silencing PTC cells, the living cells and also total cellproliferation increased significantly in the rTERT group, and decreasedsignificantly in siTERT group, when compared with the NC and control groups. The cell cycle was accelerated in the rTERT group, and blocked in the G1/S transitionin the siTERT group. The mRNA and protein levels of P27, P53 and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) decreased significantly in the rTERP group and increased inthe siTERP group, while cyclin dependent kinase 2 and Cyclin D1 increasedsignificantly in the rTERP group and decreased in the siTERP group. Theexpression of cell division cycle 25A did not alter significantly. The proteinlevels of β‑catenin and retinoblastoma were also unaltered. Protein kinase B(AKT) was detected once activated by TERT, and there were increasedphosphorylated (p)‑AKT protein levels in the rTERT group, and decreased p‑AKTprotein levels in the siTERT group. In conclusion, TERT could induce thyroidcarcinoma cell proliferation mainly through the PTEN/AKT signaling pathway.DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9119 PMCID: PMC6072153PMID: 29901196 