9. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2018 Jun 12;353:31-42. doi: 10.1016/j.taap.2018.06.009.[Epub ahead of print]The tamoxifen derivative ridaifen-B is a high affinity selective CB2 receptorinverse agonist exhibiting anti-inflammatory and anti-osteoclastogenic effects.Franks LN(1), Ford BM(1), Fujiwara T(2), Zhao H(3), Prather PL(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA.(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology Division, College of Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA.(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology Division, College of Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA. Electronicaddress: hzhao@uams.edu.(4)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, USA. Electronic address:pratherpaull@uams.edu.Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) target estrogen receptors (ERs) totreat breast cancer and osteoporosis. Several SERMs exhibit anti-cancer activity not related to ERs. To discover novel anti-cancer drugs acting via ER-independentmechanisms, derivatives of the SERM tamoxifen, known as the "ridaifen" compounds,have been developed that exhibit reduced or no ER affinity, while maintainingcytotoxicity. Tamoxifen and other SERMs bind to cannabinoid receptors withmoderate affinity. Therefore, ER-independent effects of SERMs might be mediatedvia cannabinoid receptors. This study determined whether RID-B, a firstgeneration ridaifen compound, exhibits affinity and/or activity at CB1 and/or CB2cannabinoid receptors. RID-B binds with high affinity (Ki = 43.7 nM) and 17-fold selectivity to CB2 over CB1 receptors. RID-B acts as an inverse agonist at CB2receptors, modulating G-protein and adenylyl cyclase activity with potency valuespredicted by CB2 affinity. Characteristic of an antagonist, RID-B co-incubationproduces a parallel-rightward shift in the concentration-effect curve of CB2agonist WIN-55,212-2 to inhibit adenylyl cyclase activity. CB2 inverse agonistsare reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory and anti-ostoeclastogenic effects. InLPS-activated macrophages, RID-B exhibits anti-inflammatory effects by reducinglevels of nitric oxide (NO), IL-6 and IL-1α, but not TNFα. Only reduction of NOconcentration by RID-B is mediated by cannabinoid receptors. RID-B also exhibits pronounced anti-osteoclastogenic effects, reducing the number of osteoclastsdifferentiating from primary bone marrow macrophages in a cannabinoidreceptor-dependent manner. In summary, the tamoxifen derivative RID-B, developed with reduced affinity for ERs, is a high affinity selective CB2 inverse agonistwith anti-inflammatory and anti-osteoclastogenic properties.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2018.06.009 PMID: 29906493 