74. Rev Fac Cien Med Univ Nac Cordoba. 2017 Dec 14;74(4):379-385.Early Video-Assisted Thoracic Surgery (VATS) improves quality of life Incomplicated Neoplastic Pleural Effusions.[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]Alvarez Padilla FN(1), Schiavoni EN, Bustos MEF.Author information: (1)Hospital Privado. IUCBC. facundoalvarezpadilla@gmail.com.Introduction: Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) involves advanced cancer disease. Pleural biopsy for endoscopic thoracic surgery allows diagnosis in more than 90% of cases and instrumentation of the pleural space, improving the results of thetechnique.Material and Method: We performed a retrospective analysis of patients with MPEwho underwent a talc chemical pleurodesis. Two groups were formed, one withcomplicated malignant pleural effusion (CMPE) and another with uncomplicatedmalignant pleural effusion (NCMPE). In the group with CMPE, "release - expansion maneuvers" were performed. The variables between the two groups were compared forthe relevant analysis.Results: We analyzed 28 patients with MPE treated with chemical pleurodesis byendoscopic thoracic surgery. The average age was 62.64 years. Pleural involvementdue to breast disease was the most frequent form (46.4%). There was no differencebetween complication rate (p = 0.31) and the risk of death at 30 days (p = 1.09) with aggressive management of pleural space. The delay pleurodesis indication wasrelated to a higher rate of complications (p = 0.002) and a higher probability ofdeath within 30 days (p = 0.008). The majority of patients return to their daily tasks, with good tolerance to dyspnea following the procedure.Conclusion: In patients with complicated MPE, the "lung-release maneuvers"described above would increase the chances of improving outcomes at low risk.Early chemical pleurodesis improves the quality of life of patients with PND.Publisher: El derrame pleural neoplásico (DPN) implica una enfermedad oncológica avanzada. La biopsia pleural por cirugía torácica endoscópica permite eldiagnóstico en más del 90% de los casos y la instrumentación del espacio pleural complicado, mejorando los resultados de la técnica.Se realizó un análisisretrospectivo de pacientes con DPN operados para la realización de unapleurodesis química con talco. Se formaron dos grupos, uno con derrame pleuralneoplásico complicado (DPNC) y otro con derrame pleural neoplásico no complicado (DPNNC). En el grupo con DPNC se realizó “maniobras de liberación – expansión”.Se compararon las variables entre ambos grupos para el análisis pertinente.Seanalizaron 28 pacientes con DPN tratados con pleurodesis química por cirugíatorácica endoscópica. La edad promedio fue de 62,64 años. El compromiso pleuralpor patología mamaria fue la forma más frecuente (46,4%). No se hubo diferenciaen cuanto a complicaciones (p= 0,31) y riesgo de defunción a los 30 días (p=1,09)con el manejo agresivo del espacio pleural. La demora en la indicación depleurodesis se relacionó con un mayor índice de complicaciones (p=0,002) y mayor probabilidad de defunción dentro de los 30 días (p=0,008). La mayoría depacientes se reinsertó a sus tareas diarias, con buena tolerancia a la disnealuego del procedimiento.En los pacientes con DPNC, las “maniobras de liberación -expansión pulmonar” descriptas, aumentarían las chances de mejorar los resultadoscon bajo riesgo. La pleurodesis química temprana mejora la calidad de vida de lospacientes portadores de un DPN.PMID: 29902147  [Indexed for MEDLINE]