33. J Cell Biochem. 2018 Jun 15. doi: 10.1002/jcb.27036. [Epub ahead of print]Inhibition of Notch signaling pathway enhanced the radiosensitivity of breastcancer cells.Peng JH(1), Wang XL(1), Ran L(1), Song JL(2), Zhang ZT(1), Liu X(1), Li HY(3).Author information: (1)Department of Physical Examination, The First Affiliated Hospital of ChongqingMedical University, Chongqing, P. R. China.(2)Department of Breast and Thyroid Surgery, Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University,Wuhan, P. R. China.(3)Department of Endocrine and Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital ofChongqing Medical University, Chongqing, P. R. China.This study aimed to investigate the effect of inhibiting the Notch signalingpathway on the radiosensitivity of breast cancer cells. Human breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7 and T47D) were selected and treated with radiation of differentdoses. Cells were treated with Gamma secretase inhibitor (GSI) to analyze theeffects of GSI on the Notch signaling, which were detected by Immunofluorescence assay, RT-qPCR, and Western blot analysis. Besides, Transwell assay, Scratchtest, colony formation assay, MTT assay, and flow cytometry were conducted toshow the effects of GSI on the invasion and migration, survival fraction, cellviability, and apoptosis of MCF-7 and T47D cells after radiation therapy.Moreover, cell transfection with a dominant negative mutant of RBPJ, the keytranscription factor of Notch signaling pathway, were also applied to show theinhibition of Notch signaling pathway. Initially, we found that the 4 Gyradiation activated Notch signaling pathway, and enhanced the invasion andmigration of MCF-7 and T47D cells. However, GSI inhibited the Notch signalingpathway, and reversed the enhancement of radiation on the migration and invasion,promoted the enhancement of apoptosis and inhibition of proliferation of MCF-7and T47D cells induced by radiation. Except that, we also determined that GSI anddnRBPJ suppressed the upregulation of Notch signaling after radiation therapy.Our study demonstrated that inhibition of the Notch signaling pathway enhancedthe radiosensitivity of breast cancer cells, which may provide evident for abeneficial adjuvant therapy in the breast cancer treatment.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcb.27036 PMID: 29904942 