60. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Mar;99:543-551. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.01.045. Epub2018 Feb 20.Co-targeting poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and histone deacetylase (HDAC) intriple-negative breast cancer: Higher synergism in BRCA mutated cells.Marijon H(1), Lee DH(2), Ding L(3), Sun H(2), Gery S(2), de Gramont A(4),Koeffler HP(5).Author information: (1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States; Oncology Department, Franco-British Institute, Paris, France. Electronic address: helene.marijon@ihfb.org.(2)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States.(3)National Cancer Institute and Cancer Science Institute, National University ofSingapore, Singapore.(4)Oncology Department, Franco-British Institute, Paris, France.(5)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, United States; National Cancer Institute and CancerScience Institute, National University of Singapore, Singapore.PURPOSE: Despite similarities with BRCA-mutated breast cancers, triple-negativebreast cancers (TNBC) remain resistant to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)inhibitors as single agents. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) can decrease expression of proteins involved in DNA repair. We thus hypothesized that a HDACi (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) or belinostat) could sensitize TNBC tothe PARP inhibitor olaparib.METHODS: Human TNBC cells were co-treated with olaparib and either SAHA orbelinostat, and their effects on survival, proliferation, cell cycle, apoptosisand DNA repair pathways were evaluated. Subcutaneous xenografts were used todetermine the effect of the combination treatment in vivo.RESULTS: HDACi and olaparib synergistically inhibited proliferation of a panel of8 TNBC cell lines in vitro and in nude mice harboring TNBC xenografts in vivo. Wenoted a weaker synergism in PTEN-deficient TNBC cells and a stronger synergism inBRCA1-mutated TNBC cells. In the BRCA1-mutated cell line HCC-1937, we observed a drastic decrease in the expression of proteins involved in homologousrecombination (HR), leading to a large imbalance of the ratio P-H2AX/RAD51. InBRCA1 wild type (wt) cell lines, effect of the combination treatment relied onDNA damage-induced cell cycle arrest followed by induction of apoptosis.CONCLUSION: In summary, these results provide a preclinical rationale to combine a HDACi with a PARP inhibitor to reduce HR efficiency in TNBC and sensitize theseaggressive tumors to PARP inhibition.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.01.045 PMID: 29902865 