23. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2018 Jul 11;10(27):22951-22962. doi:10.1021/acsami.8b04962. Epub 2018 Jun 26.Human Biomolecular Corona of Liposomal Doxorubicin: The Overlooked Factor inAnticancer Drug Delivery.Caracciolo G, Palchetti S, Digiacomo L, Chiozzi RZZ, Capriotti AL, AmenitschH(1), Tentori PM(2)(3), Palmieri V(4), Papi M(4), Cardarelli F(5), Pozzi D,Laganà A.Author information: (1)Institute of Inorganic Chemistry , Graz University of Technology , Graz 8010 ,Austria.(2)Center for Nanotechnology Innovation@NEST, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia ,Pisa 56127 , Italy.(3)NEST, Scuola Normale Superiore , Pisa 56127 , Italy.(4)Istituto di Fisica , Universitá Cattolica del Sacro Cuore , Rome 00168 ,Italy.(5)NEST-Scuola Normale Superiore, Istituto Nanoscienze-CNR (CNR-NANO) , Pisa56126 , Italy.More than 20 years after its approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), liposomal doxorubicin (DOX) is still the drug of choice for the treatment ofbreast cancer and other conditions such as ovarian cancer and multiple myeloma.Yet, despite the efforts, liposomal DOX did not satisfy expectations at theclinical level. When liposomal drugs enter a physiological environment, theirsurface gets coated by a dynamic biomolecular corona (BC). The BC changesliposome's synthetic identity, providing it with a new one, referred to as"biological identity" (size, aggregation state, and BC composition). Today, theconcept is emerging that specific BCs may determine either success (e.g., stealtheffect and accumulation at the target site) or failure (e.g., rapid bloodclearance and off-target interactions) of liposomal drugs. To get a comprehensiveinvestigation of liposome synthetic identity, biological identity, and cellularresponse as a function of human plasma (HP) concentration, here we used astraightforward combination of quantitative analytical and imaging tools,including dynamic light scattering, microelectrophoresis, synchrotron small-angleX-ray scattering, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), fluorescence lifetimeimaging microscopy (FLIM), nano-liquid chromatography tandem massspectrometry/mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS/MS), confocal microscopy, flowcytometry, and cell viability assays. Doxoves was selected as a reference.Following exposure to HP, Doxoves was surrounded by a complex BC that changedliposome's synthetic identity. Observations made with nano-LC-MS/MS revealed thatthe BC of Doxoves did not evolve as a function of HP concentration and was poorlyenriched of typical "opsonins" (complement proteins, immunoglobulins, etc.). Thisprovides a possible explanation for the prolonged blood circulation of liposomal DOX. On the other hand, flow cytometry showed that protein binding reduced theinternalization of DOX in MCF7 and MDA-MB-435S human breast carcinoma. Combining FLIM and TEM experiments, we clarified that reduction in DOX intracellularcontent was likely due to the frequent rupture of the liposome membrane andconsequent leakage of the cargo. In light of reported results, we are prompted tospeculate that a detailed understanding of BC formation, composition, and effectson liposome stability and uptake is an indispensable task of future research inthe field, especially along the way to clinical translation of liposomal drugs.DOI: 10.1021/acsami.8b04962 PMID: 29905462 