140. Brief Bioinform. 2017 Aug 18. doi: 10.1093/bib/bbx097. [Epub ahead of print]Accounting for differential variability in detecting differentially methylatedregions.Wang Y(1), Teschendorff AE(2)(3)(4), Widschwendter M(2), Wang S(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health, ColumbiaUniversity, New York, NY, USA.(2)Department of Women's Cancer, University College London, London, UK.(3)CAS Key Lab of Computational Biology, Shanghai Institute for BiologicalSciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.(4)Statistical Cancer Genomics, UCL Cancer Institute, University College London, London, UK.DNA methylation plays an essential role in cancer. Differential variability (DV) in cancer was recently observed that contributes to cancer heterogeneity and has been shown to be crucial in detecting epigenetic field defects, DNA methylationalterations happening early in carcinogenesis. As neighboring CpG sites arehighly correlated, here, we present a new method to detect differentiallymethylated regions (DMRs) that uses combined signals from differentialmethylation and DV between sample groups. We demonstrated in simulation studiesthe superior performance of the new method than existing methods that use onlyone type of signals when true DMRs have both. Applications to DNA methylationdata of breast invasive carcinoma (BRCA) and kidney renal clear cell carcinoma(KIRC) from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and BRCA from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) suggest that the new method identified additional cancer-related DMRs that were missed by methods using one type of signals. Replication analyses using two independent BRCA data sets suggest that DMRs detected based on DV arereproducible. Only the new method identified epigenetic field defects whencomparing normal tissues adjacent to tumors and normal tissues from age-matchedcancer-free women from the GEO BRCA data and confirmed their enrichment in theprogression to breast cancer.DOI: 10.1093/bib/bbx097 PMID: 29912290 