Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.104. Biosci Rep. 2018 Jul 6;38(4). pii: BSR20180704. doi: 10.1042/BSR20180704. Print2018 Aug 31.Long noncoding RNA MIAT regulates apoptosis and the apoptotic response tochemotherapeutic agents in breast cancer cell lines.Almnaseer ZA(1), Mourtada-Maarabouni M(2).Author information: (1)Apoptosis Research Group, School of Life Sciences, Faculty of NaturalSciences, Keele University, Huxley Building, Keele ST5 5BG, U.K.(2)Apoptosis Research Group, School of Life Sciences, Faculty of NaturalSciences, Keele University, Huxley Building, Keele ST5 5BG, U.K.m.m.maarabouni@keele.ac.uk.The long noncoding RNA myocardial infarction associated transcript (MIAT) isinvolved in a number of diseases, including myocardial infarction and diabeticretinopathy. Emerging evidence suggests that MIAT expression levels are increasedin different type of cancers, including breast cancer. In the present study, wefurther evaluated the role of MIAT in breast cancer and investigated theconsequences of its silencing on breast cancer response to chemotherapeuticagents. Expression levels of MIAT mRNA in breast cancer were determined usingTissueScan™ Breast Cancer cDNA Arrays. Breast cancer cell lines were transfected with MIAT specific siRNAs, with silencing confirmed using RT-qPCR and the effectson breast cancer cell survival and response to different apoptotic stimulidetermined. MIAT transcript levels were significantly elevated in breast cancersamples. Such increase was specific to the early stages of the disease, ER, PR+ve, HER -ve, and triple negative breast cancer samples. Silencing of MIATinduced growth arrest and increased basal apoptosis. Reduced levels of MIATaugmented the apoptotic response of breast cancer cells to a wide range ofapoptotic stimuli. Our results also showed that MIAT down-regulation wasassociated with a decrease in OCT4 mRNA, suggesting the existence of a MIAT/OCT4 regulatory loop, similar to that observed in malignant mature B cells. Takentogether with the recent demonstration of oncogene characteristics, ourobservations suggest that MIAT plays an important role in breast tumorigenesis.Strategies to decrease MIAT expression levels may improve sensitivity to therapy in breast cancer by enhancing the apoptotic responses to conventionalchemotherapies.© 2018 The Author(s).DOI: 10.1042/BSR20180704 PMID: 29914974 