84. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Jun 18. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4859-y. [Epub aheadof print]A pilot study of a breast surgery Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocolto eliminate narcotic prescription at discharge.Rojas KE(1), Manasseh DM(2), Flom PL(3), Agbroko S(4), Bilbro N(2), Andaz C(2),Borgen PI(2).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.kristinrojasmd@gmail.com.(2)Department of Surgery, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.(3)Peter Flom Consulting, New York, NY, USA.(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.BACKGROUND: The evolving conceptualization of the management of surgical pain wasa major contributor to the supply of narcotics that led to the opioid crisis. We designed and implemented a breast surgery-specific Enhanced Recovery AfterSurgery (ERAS) protocol using opioid-sparing techniques to eliminate narcoticprescription at discharge without sacrificing perioperative pain control.METHODS: A pilot observational study included patients with and without cancerundergoing lumpectomy. The convenience sample consisted of an ERAS group and acontrol usual care (UC) group who underwent surgery during the same time period. Discharge narcotic prescriptions were compared after converting to oral morphine milligram equivalents (MME's). Postoperative day one and week one pain scoreswere also compared between the two groups.RESULTS: Ninety ERAS and 67 UC patients were enrolled. Most lumpectomies werewire-localized, and half of the patients in each group had breast cancer. Therewere more obese patients in the ERAS group. UC lumpectomy patients weredischarged with a median of 54.5 MMEs (range 0-120), while the ERAS lumpectomypatients were discharged with none (p < 0.001). Postoperative pain scores werenot significantly different between groups, and there were few complications.CONCLUSION: A breast surgery-specific ERAS protocol employing opioid-sparingtechniques successfully eliminated postoperative narcotic prescription withoutsacrificing perioperative pain control or increasing postoperative complications.By promoting the adoption of similar protocols, surgeons can continue to improve patient outcomes while decreasing the quantity of narcotics available fordiversion within our patients' communities.DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4859-y PMID: 29915947 