139. Hum Reprod. 2018 Jul 1;33(7):1281-1290. doi: 10.1093/humrep/dey216.The impact of cancer on subsequent chance of pregnancy: a population-basedanalysis.Anderson RA(1), Brewster DH(2), Wood R(3), Nowell S(4)(5), Fischbacher C(3),Kelsey TW(6), Wallace WHB(7).Author information: (1)MRC Centre for Reproductive Health, Queen's Medical Research Institute,University of Edinburgh, 47 Little france Crescent, Edinburgh, UK.(2)Scottish Cancer Registry, Information Services Division, NHS National ServicesScotland, 1 South Gyle Crescent, Edinburgh, UK.(3)Information Services Division, NHS National Services Scotland, 1 South GyleCrescent, Edinburgh, UK.(4)eData Research & Innovation Service (eDRIS), Information Services Division,NHS National Services Scotland, Edinburgh, 1 South Gyle Crescent, Edinburgh, UK.(5)Farr Institute Scotland, Nine Edinburgh Bioquarter, Little France Road,Edinburgh, UK.(6)School of Computer Science, University of St. Andrews, North Haugh, St.Andrews, UK.(7)Department of Oncology and Haematology, Royal Hospital for Sick Children,Sciennes Road, Edinburgh, UK.STUDY QUESTION: What is the impact of cancer in females aged ≤39 years onsubsequent chance of pregnancy?SUMMARY ANSWER: Cancer survivors achieved fewer pregnancies across all cancertypes, and the chance of achieving a first pregnancy was also lower.WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: The diagnosis and treatment of cancer in young females maybe associated with reduced fertility but the true pregnancy deficit in apopulation is unknown.STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: We performed a retrospective cohort study relating first incident cancer diagnosed between 1981 and 2012 to subsequent pregnancy in all female patients in Scotland aged 39 years or less at cancer diagnosis (n = 23201). Pregnancies were included up to end of 2014. Females from the exposed groupnot pregnant before cancer diagnosis (n = 10 271) were compared with generalpopulation controls matched for age, deprivation quintile and year of diagnosis.PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Scottish Cancer Registry records werelinked to hospital discharge records to calculate standardized incidence ratios(SIR) for pregnancy, standardized for age and year of diagnosis. Linkage to deathrecords was also performed. We also selected women from the exposed group who hadnot been pregnant prior to their cancer diagnosis who were compared with amatched control group from the general population. Additional analyses wereperformed for breast cancer, Hodgkin lymphoma, leukaemia, cervical cancer andbrain/CNS cancers.MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: Cancer survivors achieved fewer pregnancies:SIR 0.62 (95% CI: 0.60, 0.63). Reduced SIR was observed for all cancer types. Thechance of achieving a first pregnancy was also lower, adjusted hazard ratio =0.57 (95% CI: 0.53, 0.61) for women >5 years after diagnosis, with markedreductions in women with breast, cervical and brain/CNS tumours, and leukaemia.The effect was reduced with more recent treatment period overall and in cervical cancer, breast cancer and Hodgkin lymphoma, but was unchanged for leukaemia orbrain/CNS cancers. The proportion of pregnancies that ended in termination waslower after a cancer diagnosis, and the proportion ending in live birth washigher (78.7 vs 75.6%, CI of difference: 1.1, 5.0).LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: Details of treatments received were notavailable, so the impact of specific treatment regimens on fertility could not beassessed. Limited duration of follow-up was available for women diagnosed in the most recent time period.WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: This analysis provides population-basedquantification by cancer type of the effect of cancer and its treatment onsubsequent pregnancy across the reproductive age range, and how this has changed in recent decades. The demonstration of a reduced chance of pregnancy across all cancer types and the changing impact in some but not other common cancershighlights the need for appropriate fertility counselling of all females ofreproductive age at diagnosis.STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): This study was funded by NHS Lothian Cancer and Leukaemia Endowments Fund. Part of this work was undertaken in the MRC Centrefor Reproductive Health which is funded by the MRC Centre grant MR/N022556/1. RAAhas participated in Advisory Boards and/or received speaker's fees from BeckmanCoulter, IBSA, Merck and Roche Diagnostics. He has received research support fromRoche Diagnostics, Ansh labs and Ferring. The other authors have no conflicts to declare.DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dey216 PMCID: PMC6012597PMID: 29912328 