161. Cancer Manag Res. 2018 May 31;10:1397-1401. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S159561.eCollection 2018.Combined microwave ablation and minimally invasive open decompression for themanagement of thoracic metastasis in breast cancer.Liu B(#)(1), Yuan Z(#)(1), Wei CY(2).Author information: (1)Department of Bone and Soft Tissue Neurosurgery.(2)Department of Breast Tumor Surgery, Affiliated Tumor Hospital of GuangxiMedical University, Nanning, China.(#)Contributed equallyObjective: The incidence rate of thoracic metastasis from breast cancer isincreasing. Microwave ablation is one type of clinical therapy used to treatmetastatic spine disease, although it can cause protein denaturation andimmediate cell death, and coagulative necrosis can occur. Minimally invasive opendecompression is associated with lower rates of surgical complications incomparison to traditional open surgery. Therefore, it is an alternativetherapeutic option for spinal metastases. This study aimed to assess the efficacyof microwave ablation with minimally invasive open decompression in themanagement of breast cancer patients with thoracic metastasis.Methods: This single-institution retrospective study investigated 23 cases ofthoracic metastasis from breast cancer treated with combined microwave ablationand minimally invasive open decompression. Patients that presented withindications for surgery underwent surgical treatment. Data were collected forpain scores, the Frankel Grade classification system for acute spinal injury, theKarnofsky performance status (KPS) scale and complications due to treatment.Results: Of the 23 patients included in this study, all were successfully treatedwith microwave ablation and minimal invasive open decompression using ourmetrics. Of those, 18 patients (78.3%) showed improvement in their KPS resultswhile 5 (21.7%) had alleviation of KPS. All 23 patients showed improvement intheir Frankel Grade, suggesting improved neurological function following surgery.Most of the patients reported pain relief. Postoperative complications occurredin 4 patients.Conclusion: Microwave ablation combined with minimally invasive opendecompression therapy for breast cancer patients with thoracic metastatic tumors is an alternative treatment that maintains or improves functional outcome incomparison to open surgery.DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S159561 PMCID: PMC5987865PMID: 29910637 