122. Scand J Pain. 2012 Jul 1;3(3):134-140. doi: 10.1016/j.sjpain.2012.02.007.Phantom phenomena - Their perceived qualities and consequences from the patient'sperspective.Björkman B(1), Lund I(2), Arnér S(1), Hydén LC(3).Author information: (1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Section of Anesthesiology andIntensive Care, Karolinska Institutet, SE-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska Institutet, SE-171 77Stockholm, Sweden.(3)Center for Dementia Research (CEDER), Department of Medical and HealthSciences, Linköping University, SE-581 83, Linköping, Sweden.Background and aim The curious phenomenon phantom limbs early became the objectof research, and its underlying mechanisms have been discussed over the years.The complex nature of phantom phenomena makes interpretation of the resultsambiguous, regarding both prevalence and the accompanying suffering. There is alack of knowledge about how amputees experience the meaning and consequences ofphantom phenomena. The present aim, therefore, was to investigate howindividuals, in an interview situation, described the qualities of possibleperceived phantom phenomena, and how their experience affected their lives onemonth after the amputation/mastectomy. Methods Twenty-eight women and men who hadundergone a limb amputation or mastectomy were interviewed. The focused,narrative-oriented interviews were transcribed verbatim and the scripts wereanalysed with content analysis. Results One month after the amputation theinformants described and related their phantom pain and phantom sensations insensory-discriminative, motivational-affective and cognitive-evaluativedimensions. The phantom sensations were experienced mainly as more agonizing thanthe phantom pain. Despite both the high intensity of and the high annoyance atthe phantom pain and phantom sensations, a majority felt that the phantomphenomena were not a hindrance in their attempts to recapture ordinary life. But when the hindrance was evaluated as high, the annoyance was evaluated as thehighest possible for both phenomena or for the phantom sensations alone, neverfor phantom pain alone. The interviewees' reported attitudes of hindrance werealso described and estimated in the light of their sociocultural circumstances.Thus, other preceding and/or co-existent pain conditions as well as factors such as pre-operative information, the respondents' views on pain treatment, and theirknowledge and understanding of phantom phenomena were mentioned and related tothe pain-producing situation. Two-thirds of the interviewees had receivedpost-surgical information and for some, the phenomena were well-known fromearlier experience. A majority applied some version of the medical explanationmodel, irrespective of age or level of education. However neither information normedical explanation, or both, sufficed for them to understand their own phantomphenomena. Thus, differences between the concepts explanation and understandingseemed significant for the annoyance related to the phantom phenomena. Regarding background data (i) the majority of the interviewees had had pre-amputation pain problems; (ii) the breast-cancer phantoms differed in several ways; (iii) therewere some age and gender differences in the descriptions of hindrance.Conclusions and implications These findings highlight the importance of observingthe individual approach to the phenomena as a process of evaluation andselection. In addition, experience and understanding of the phantoms also havesociocultural aspects. There follows the need for individualized communicationand information from the clinician, and for incorporating a socioscientific andmeaning-centred approach in future studies. The present insights could also be ofvalue in other iatrogenic pain conditions.DOI: 10.1016/j.sjpain.2012.02.007 PMID: 29913836 