112. BMC Health Serv Res. 2018 Jun 18;18(1):463. doi: 10.1186/s12913-018-3280-x.Development of an exercise intervention for the prevention of musculoskeletalshoulder problems after breast cancer treatment: the prevention of shoulderproblems trial (UK PROSPER).Richmond H(1), Lait C(2), Srikesavan C(3), Williamson E(3), Moser J(4), NewmanM(3)(4), Betteley L(1), Fordham B(3), Rees S(1), Lamb SE(1)(3), Bruce J(5);PROSPER Study Group.Collaborators: Bruce J, Lamb SE, Williamson E, Lall R, Petrou S, Thompson A,Williams J, Richmond H, Lait C, Rees S, Mistry P, Canaway A, Mazuquin B.Author information: (1)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, Division of Health Sciences, University ofWarwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK.(2)Gloucestershire Care Services NHS Trust, 1010 Gloucester Business Park,Pioneer Avenue, Brockworth, Gloucester, GL, 3 4AW, UK.(3)Botnar Research Centre, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics Rheumatology &Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Oxford, OX3 7LD,UK.(4)Physiotherapy Research Unit, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust,Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Windmill Road, Oxford, OX3 7HE, UK.(5)Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, Division of Health Sciences, University ofWarwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK. julie.bruce@warwick.ac.uk.BACKGROUND: Musculoskeletal shoulder problems are common after breast cancertreatment. There is some evidence to suggest that early postoperative exercise issafe and may improve shoulder function. We describe the development and delivery of a complex intervention for evaluation within a randomised controlled trial(RCT), designed to target prevention of musculoskeletal shoulder problems afterbreast cancer surgery (The Prevention of Shoulder Problems Trial; PROSPER).METHODS: A pragmatic, multicentre RCT to compare the clinical andcost-effectiveness of best practice usual care versus a physiotherapy-ledexercise and behavioural support intervention in women at high risk of shoulderproblems after breast cancer treatment. PROSPER will recruit 350 women fromapproximately 15 UK centres, with follow-up at 6 and 12 months. The primaryoutcome is shoulder function at 12 months; secondary outcomes includepostoperative pain, health related quality of life, adverse events and healthcareresource use. A multi-phased approach was used to develop the PROSPERintervention which was underpinned by existing evidence and modified forimplementation after input from clinical experts and women with breast cancer.The intervention was tested and refined further after qualitative interviews withpatients newly diagnosed with breast cancer; a pilot RCT was then conducted atthree UK clinical centres.DISCUSSION: The PROSPER intervention incorporates three main components:shoulder-specific exercises targeting range of movement and strength; generalphysical activity; and behavioural strategies to encourage adherence and support exercise behaviour. The final PROSPER intervention is fully manualised withclear, documented pathways for clinical assessment, exercise prescription, use ofbehavioural strategies, and with guidance for treatment of postoperativecomplications. This paper adheres to TIDieR and CERT recommendations for thetransparent, comprehensive and explicit reporting of complex interventions.TRIAL REGISTRATION: International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number:ISRCTN 35358984 .DOI: 10.1186/s12913-018-3280-x PMCID: PMC6006920PMID: 29914494 