61. J Adv Nurs. 2018 Jun 19. doi: 10.1111/jan.13766. [Epub ahead of print]Comparison of complications between peripheral arm ports and central chest ports:A meta-analysis.Wu S(1), Li W(2), Zhang Q(1), Li S(2), Wang L(1).Author information: (1)Nursing Department of Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University,Guangzhou, China.(2)Oncology Department of Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.AIM: The aim of this study was to compare peripheral arm ports versus centralchest ports in complication rates.BACKGROUND: Late complications of arm ports versus chest ports, includingcatheter-related infection, venous thrombosis and catheter obstruction, remaincontroversial.DESIGN: A meta-analysis conducted following the Cochrane handbook.DATA SOURCES: Studies published between 1950-August 2017 were searched throughPubmed, Embase, Web of science and Cochrane library.REVIEW METHODS: Two authors independently searched the eligible studies andextracted the data. Studies reporting complications of arm ports compared withchest ports, published in full texts and abstracts, were included. The quality ofthe studies was assessed with the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. We did subgroupanalyses according to cancer type, age, follow-up and anticoagulant. Relativeratios were calculated with different models.RESULTS: A total of 15 articles covering 3,524 tumour patients met theeligibility criteria. There was no difference in catheter-related infection andcatheter obstruction between arm ports and chest ports. After reducing the highheterogeneity, no difference was observed in thrombosis overall; however, armports had a lower thrombosis rate than chest ports in patients with head and neckcancer, while a higher thrombosis rate was observed in patients <60 years old or follow up ≥1 year. Further studies are needed in venous thrombosis.CONCLUSIONS: Arm ports are a safe option beside chest ports for adult patientswith malignancy, especially in patients with head-neck cancer or breast cancer.Patients should be well informed of the advantages and disadvantages of differentvascular access devices and provided a choice.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/jan.13766 PMID: 29917252 