136. J Obstet Gynaecol. 2018 Jun 18:1-9. doi: 10.1080/01443615.2018.1457631. [Epubahead of print]Breast cancer during pregnancy: results of maternal and perinatal outcomes in asingle institution and systematic review of the literature.Gomez-Hidalgo NR(1), Mendizabal E(1), Joigneau L(1), Pintado P(1), De Leon-LuisJ(1).Author information: (1)a Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology , Hospital Gregorio MarañonUniversidad Complutense de Madrid , Madrid , Spain.To compare the maternal and the perinatal variables of the patients withpregnancy associated breast cancer (PABC) and the pregnant patients withoutbreast cancer (PNABC), we retrospectively included 13 PABC cases and 66.265 PNABCpatients. The PABC patients presented a lower mean gestational age at theirdelivery and had higher induction of labour and prematurity rates. A diagnosiswas performed before stage III in 77% of the cases. The overall survival was 90%;moreover, we collected 16 manuscripts when gathering data from 1581 patients withPABC. The mean follow-up time was 70 ± 8 months. The mean maternal age atdiagnosis was 34 years old. Most of the patients were at their second trimesterof pregnancy. The gestational age at delivery was 35 weeks. A mastectomy was the most frequently used surgical approach. PABC should be managed by amultidisciplinary team, ensuring there is a rigorous oncological treatment, with foetal well-being. IMPACT STATEMENT What is already known on this subject? Themalignant breast tumours diagnosed during pregnancy, or 1 year after a deliveryare increasing, there is evidence supporting the treatment during a pregnancywith maternal and foetal safety. A PABC should be managed by a multidisciplinary team in a referral centre, ensuring that there is a rigorous oncologicaltreatment with foetal well-being. What do the results of this study add? Ourresults show that the PABC patients in our centre had a mean maternal age olderthan the PNABC women, as well as a higher percentage of the induction of labourand prematurity. 48 Cancer was usually diagnosed in early stages, and the mostcommon type was ductal infiltrating, with positive hormonal receptors. For those patients continuing their pregnancies, a mastectomy plus a lymphadenectomy wasthe most frequent chemotherapy, and was usually administered in the thirdtrimester of pregnancy. What are the implications of these findings for futureclinical practice and/or further research? Moreover, the number of publicationsconcerning PABC has grown, series are still scarce. We understand the limitationsof the low number of the cases on our population, but this study is the firstwhich compare the PABC with the PNABC patients, allowing to describe and compare the obstetrical and perinatal variables. Finally, we consider it is of aparamount importance to create an international database to register in aprospective way all of the cases of PABC to increase our knowledge in this field.DOI: 10.1080/01443615.2018.1457631 PMID: 29912592 