159. Curr Oncol. 2018 Jun;25(Suppl 1):S18-S27. doi: 10.3747/co.25.3752. Epub 2018 Jun 13.Overcoming endocrine resistance in hormone receptor-positive breast cancer.AlFakeeh A(1)(2), Brezden-Masley C(1)(3).Author information: (1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, St. Michael's Hospital, University ofToronto, Toronto, ON.(2)King Fahad Medical City, Comprehensive Cancer Centre, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.(3)Keenan Research Centre, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael'sHospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON.Endocrine therapy, a major modality in the treatment of hormone receptor(hr)-positive breast cancer (bca), has improved outcomes in metastatic andnonmetastatic disease. However, a limiting factor to the use of endocrine therapyin bca is resistance resulting from the development of escape pathways thatpromote the survival of cancer cells despite estrogen receptor (er)-targetedtherapy. The resistance pathways involve extensive cross-talk between er andreceptor tyrosine kinase growth factors [epidermal growth factor receptor, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (her2), and insulin-like growth factor 1receptor] and their downstream signalling pathways-most notably pi3k/akt/mtor andmapk. In some cases, resistance develops as a result of genetic or epigeneticalterations in various components of the signalling pathways, such asoverexpression of her2 and erα co-activators, aberrant expression of cell-cycleregulators, and PIK3CA mutations. By combining endocrine therapy with variousmolecularly targeted agents and signal transduction inhibitors, some success has been achieved in overcoming and modulating endocrine resistance in hr-positivebca. Established strategies include selective er downregulators, anti-her2agents, mtor (mechanistic target of rapamycin) inhibitors, and inhibitors ofcyclin-dependent kinases 4 and 6. Inhibitors of pi3ka are not currently atreatment option for women with hr-positive bca outside the context of clinicaltrial. Ongoing clinical trials are exploring more agents that could be combinedwith endocrine therapy, and biomarkers that would help to guide decision-makingand maximize clinical efficacy. In this review article, we address currenttreatment strategies for endocrine resistance, and we highlight futuretherapeutic targets in the endocrine pathway of bca.DOI: 10.3747/co.25.3752 PMCID: PMC6001756PMID: 29910644 