Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.163. Int J Nanomedicine. 2018 May 31;13:3235-3250. doi: 10.2147/IJN.S165289.eCollection 2018.Chitosan gold nanoparticles induce cell death in HeLa and MCF-7 cells throughreactive oxygen species production.Martínez-Torres AC(1), Zarate-Triviño DG(1), Lorenzo-Anota HY(1), Ávila-ÁvilaA(1), Rodríguez-Abrego C(1), Rodríguez-Padilla C(1).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Immunology and Virology, Faculty of Biological Sciences,Autonomous University of Nuevo Leon, Monterrey, Mexico.Background: Nanotechnology has gained important interest, especially in thedevelopment of new therapies; the application of gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) inthe treatment and detection of diseases is a growing trend in this field. Ascancer represents a serious health problem around the world, AuNPs are studied aspotential drugs or drug carriers for anticancer agents. Recent studies show that AuNPs stabilized with chitosan (CH) possess interesting biological activities,including potential antitumor effects that could be selective to cancer cells.Materials and methods: In this study, we synthesized sodium citrate-AuNPs andCH-capped AuNPs of 3-10 nm, and analyzed their cytotoxicity in cervical (HeLa)and breast (MCF-7) cancer cells, and in peripheral blood mononuclear cells(PBMCs). Then, we evaluated the clonogenic potential, cell cycle, nuclearalterations, caspase dependence, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in HeLa and MCF-7 cells after chitosan gold nanoparticles (CH-AuNPs) exposure.Results: Our data showed that CH-AuNPs are cytotoxic in a dose-dependent mannerin the cancer cell lines tested, while they induce low cytotoxicity in PBMCs.Sodium citrate gold nanoparticles did not show cytotoxic effects. In both HeLaand MCF-7 cell lines, CH-AuNPs inhibit clonogenic potential without inducing cellcycle arrest or nuclear alterations. The cell death mechanism is specific for thetype of cancer cell line tested, as it depends on caspase activation in HeLacells, whereas it is caspase independent in MCF-7 cells. In all cases, ROSproduction is mandatory for cell death induction by CH-AuNPs, as ROS inhibitionwith N-acetyl cysteine inhibits cell death.Conclusion: Our results show that CH-AuNPs are selective for HeLa and MCF-7cancer cells, rather than normal PBMCs, and that ROS production seems to be aconserved feature of the cell death mechanism induced by CH-AuNPs. These results improve the knowledge of CH-AuNPs and open the way to the design of newpharmacological strategies using these agents against cancer.DOI: 10.2147/IJN.S165289 PMCID: PMC5987788PMID: 29910612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]