123. FASEB J. 2018 Apr 16:fj201701544R. doi: 10.1096/fj.201701544R. [Epub ahead ofprint]Development of a new high-affinity human antibody with antitumor activity againstsolid and blood malignancies.Sioud M(1), Westby P(1), Vasovic V(2), Fløisand Y(3), Peng Q(2).Author information: (1)Department of Cancer Immunology, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, UniversityHospital, Oslo, Norway.(2)Department of Pathology, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, University Hospital,Oslo, Norway; and.(3)Department of Hematology, Rikshospitalet-Radiumhospitalet, UniversityHospital, Oslo, Norway.mAbs have emerged as a promising strategy for the treatment of cancer. However,in several malignancies, no effective antitumor mAbs are yet available.Identifying therapeutic mAbs that recognize common tumor antigens could renderthe treatment widely applicable. Here, a human single-chain variable fragment(scFv) antibody library was sequentially affinity selected against a panel ofhuman cancer cell lines and an antibody fragment (named MS5) that bound to solid and blood cancer cells was identified. The MS5 scFv was fused to the human IgG1Fc domain to generate an antibody (MS5-Fc fusion) that induced antibody-dependentcellular cytotoxicity and phagocytosis of cancer cells by macrophages. Inaddition, the MS5-Fc antibody bound to primary leukemia cells and inducedantibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. In the majority of analyzed cancercells, the MS5-Fc antibody induced cell surface redistribution of the receptorcomplexes, but not internalization, thus maximizing the accessibility of the IgG1Fc domain to immune effector cells. In vitro stability studies showed that theMS5-Fc antibody was stable after 6 d of incubation in human serum, retaining ∼60%of its initial intact form. After intravenous injections, the antibody localized into tumor tissues and inhibited the growth of 3 different human tumor xenografts(breast, lymphoma, and leukemia). These antitumor effects were associated withtumor infiltration by macrophages and NK cells. In the Ramos B-cell lymphomaxenograft model, the MS5-Fc antibody exhibited a comparable antitumor effect asrituximab, a chimeric anti-CD20 IgG1 mAb. These results indicate that humanantibodies with pan-cancer abilities can be generated from phage displaylibraries, and that the engineered MS5-Fc antibody could be an attractive agentfor further clinical investigation.-Sioud, M., Westby, P., Vasovic, V., Fløisand,Y., Peng, Q. Development of a new high-affinity human antibody with antitumoractivity against solid and blood malignancies.DOI: 10.1096/fj.201701544R PMID: 29913558 