154. Curr Oncol. 2018 Jun;25(Suppl 1):S151-S160. doi: 10.3747/co.25.3729. Epub 2018Jun 13.Clinical practice guidelines in breast cancer.Tyagi NK(1), Dhesy-Thind S(1).Author information: (1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology, McMaster University,Hamilton, ON.Background: A number of clinical practice guidelines (cpgs) concerning breastcancer (bca) screening and management are available. Here, we review thestrengths and weaknesses of cpgs from various professional organizations andconsensus groups with respect to their methodologic quality, recommendations, andimplementability.Methods: Guidelines from four groups were reviewed with respect to two clinicalscenarios: adjuvant ovarian function suppression (ofs) in premenopausal womenwith early-stage estrogen receptor-positive bca, and use of sentinel lymph nodebiopsy (slnb) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (nac) for locally advanced bca.Guidelines from the American Society of Clinical Oncology (asco); Cancer CareOntario's Program in Evidence Based Care (cco's pebc); the U.S. NationalComprehensive Cancer Network (nccn); and the St. Gallen International BreastCancer Consensus Conference were reviewed by two independent assessors. Guidelinemethodology and applicability were evaluated using the agree ii tool.Results: The quality of the cpgs was greatest for the guidelines developed byasco and cco's pebc. The nccn and St. Gallen guidelines were found to have lower scores for methodologic rigour. All guidelines scored poorly for applicability.The recommendations for ofs were similar in three guidelines. Recommendations by the various organizations for the use of slnb after nac were contradictory.Conclusions: Our review demonstrated that cpgs can be heterogeneous inmethodologic quality. Low-quality cpg implementation strategies contribute to lowuptake of, and adherence to, bca cpgs. Further research examining the barriers torecommendations-such as intrinsic guideline characteristics and the needs of end users-is required. The use of bca cpgs can improve the knowledge-to-practice gap and patient outcomes.DOI: 10.3747/co.25.3729 PMCID: PMC6001762PMID: 29910658 