105. BMJ. 2018 Jun 18;361:k2387. doi: 10.1136/bmj.k2387.Prevalence and outcomes of incidental imaging findings: umbrella review.O'Sullivan JW(1), Muntinga T(1), Grigg S(2), Ioannidis JPA(3)(4)(5)(6)(7).Author information: (1)Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine, Nuffield Department of Primary Care HealthSciences, University of Oxford, Oxford OX2 6GG, UK.(2)University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.(3)Stanford Prevention Research Center, Stanford University School of Medicine,Stanford, CA, USA.(4)Department of Health Research and Policy, Stanford University School ofMedicine, Stanford, CA, USA.(5)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Stanford University School of Medicine,Stanford, CA, USA.(6)Department of Statistics, Stanford University School of Humanities andSciences, Stanford, CA, USA.(7)Meta-Research Innovation Center at Stanford (METRICS), Stanford University,Stanford, CA, USA.OBJECTIVE: To provide an overview of the evidence on prevalence and outcomes ofincidental imaging findings.DESIGN: Umbrella review of systematic reviews.DATA SOURCES: Searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE up to August 2017; screening ofreferences in included papers.ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: Criteria included systematic reviews and meta-analyses ofobservational studies that gave a prevalence of incidental abnormalities("incidentalomas"). An incidental imaging finding was defined as an imagingabnormality in a healthy, asymptomatic patient or an imaging abnormality in asymptomatic patient, where the abnormality was not apparently related to thepatient's symptoms. Primary studies that measured the prevalence ofincidentalomas in patients with a history of malignancy were also considered insensitivity analyses.RESULTS: 20 systematic reviews (240 primary studies) were identified from 7098references from the database search. Fifteen systematic reviews provided data to quantify the prevalence of incidentalomas, whereas 18 provided data to quantifythe outcomes of incidentalomas (13 provided both). The prevalence ofincidentalomas varied substantially between imaging tests; it was less than 5%for chest computed tomography for incidental pulmonary embolism in patients with and without cancer and whole body positron emission tomography (PET) orPET/computed tomography (for patients with and without cancer). Conversely,incidentalomas occurred in more than a third of images in cardiac magneticresonance imaging (MRI), chest computed tomography (for incidentalomas of thorax,abdomen, spine, or heart), and computed tomography colonoscopy (for extra-colonicincidentalomas). Intermediate rates occurred with MRI of the spine (22%) andbrain (22%). The rate of malignancy in incidentalomas varied substantiallybetween organs; the prevalence of malignancy was less than 5% in incidentalomasof the brain, parotid, and adrenal gland. Extra-colonic, prostatic, and colonicincidentalomas were malignant between 10% and 20% of the time, whereas renal,thyroid, and ovarian incidentalomas were malignant around a quarter of the time. Breast incidentalomas had the highest percentage of malignancy (42%, 95%confidence interval 31% to 54%). Many assessments had high between-studyheterogeneity (15 of 20 meta-analyses with I2 >50%).CONCLUSIONS: There is large variability across different imaging techniques both in the prevalence of incidentalomas and in the prevalence of malignancy forspecific organs. This umbrella review will aid clinicians and patients weigh upthe pros and cons of requesting imaging scans and will help with managementdecisions after an incidentaloma diagnosis. Our results can underpin the creationof guidelines to assist these decisions.SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO: CRD42017075679.Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where notalready granted under a licence) please go tohttp://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.PMID: 29914908 