103. Acta Biomater. 2018 Aug;76:239-256. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.05.031. Epub 2018 Jun 19.Engineering folate-targeting diselenide-containing triblock copolymer as aredox-responsive shell-sheddable micelle for antitumor therapy in vivo.Behroozi F(1), Abdkhodaie MJ(2), Abandansari HS(3), Satarian L(4), Molazem M(5), Al-Jamal KT(6), Baharvand H(7).Author information: (1)Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, Sharif University ofTechnology, Tehran, Iran.(2)Department of Chemical and Petroleum Engineering, Sharif University ofTechnology, Tehran, Iran; Environmental Applied Science and Management, RyersonUniversity, Toronto, Canada. Electronic address: abdmj@sharif.edu.(3)Department of Cell Engineering, Cell Science Research Center, Royan Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Technology, ACECR, Tehran, Iran.(4)Department of Stem Cells and Developmental Biology, Cell Science ResearchCenter, Royan Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Technology, ACECR, Tehran,Iran.(5)Department of Radiology and Surgery, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.(6)Institute of Pharmaceutical Science, Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine,King's College London, Franklin-Wilkins Building, London, UK.(7)Department of Stem Cells and Developmental Biology, Cell Science ResearchCenter, Royan Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Technology, ACECR, Tehran,Iran; Department of Developmental Biology, University of Science and Culture,Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: Baharvand@Royaninstitute.org.The oxidation-reduction (redox)-responsive micelle system is based on adiselenide-containing triblock copolymer,poly(ε-caprolactone)-bis(diselenide-methoxy poly(ethylene glycol)/poly(ethyleneglycol)-folate) [PCL-(SeSe-mPEG/PEG-FA)2]. This has helped in the development of tumor-targeted delivery for hydrophobic anticancer drugs. The diselenide bond, asa redox-sensitive linkage, was designed in such a manner that it is located atthe hydrophilic-hydrophobic hinge to allow complete collapse of the micelle andthus efficient drug release in redox environments. The amphiphilic blockcopolymers self-assembled into micelles at concentrations higher than thecritical micelle concentration (CMC) in an aqueous environment. Dynamic lightscattering (DLS) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analyses showed that the micelles were spherical with an average diameter of 120 nm. The insolubleanticancer drug paclitaxel (PTX) was loaded into micelles, and its triggeredrelease behavior under different redox conditions was verified. Folate-targeting micelles showed an enhanced uptake in 4T1 breast cancer cells and in vitrocytotoxicity by flow cytometry and(3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium) (MTS) assay, respectively. Delayed tumor growth was confirmed in thesubcutaneously implanted 4T1 breast cancer in mice after intraperitonealinjection. The proposed redox-responsive copolymer offers a new type ofbiomaterial for drug delivery into cancer cells in vivo.STATEMENT OFSIGNIFICANCE: On-demand drug actuation is highly desired. Redox-responsivepolymeric DDSs have been shown to be able to respond and release their cargo in aselective manner when encountering a significant change in the potentialdifference, such as that present between cancerous and healthy tissues. Thisstudy offers an added advantage to the field of redox-responsive polymers byreporting a new type of shell-sheddable micelle based on an amphiphilic triblock co-polymer, containing diselenide as a redox-sensitive linkage. The linkage wassmartly located at the hydrophilic-hydrophilic bridge in the co-polymer offering complete collapse of the micelle when exposed to the right trigger. The systemwas able to delay tumor growth and reduce toxicity in a breast cancer tumor modelfollowing intraperitoneal injection in mice.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.05.031 PMID: 29928995 