1. J Cell Mol Med. 2018 Jun 19. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.13647. [Epub ahead of print]Corilagin inhibits breast cancer growth via reactive oxygen species-dependentapoptosis and autophagy.Tong Y(1), Zhang G(1), Li Y(1), Xu J(2), Yuan J(1), Zhang B(3), Hu T(1), SongG(1).Author information: (1)Cancer Research Center, Medical College of Xiamen University, Xiamen, China.(2)Fisheries college, Jimei University, Xiamen, China.(3)Department of Basic Medicine, Medical College of Xiamen University, Xiamen,China.Corilagin is a component of Phyllanthus urinaria extract and has been found ofpossessing anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative, and anti-tumour properties inclinic treatments. However, the underlying mechanisms in anti-cancer particularlyof its induction of cell death in human breast cancer remain undefined. Ourresearch found that corilagin-induced apoptotic and autophagic cell deathdepending on reactive oxygen species (ROS) in human breast cancer cell, and itoccurred in human breast cancer cell (MCF-7) only comparing with normal cells.The expression of procaspase-8, procaspase-3, PARP, Bcl-2 and procaspase-9 wasdown-regulated while caspase-8, cleaved PARP, caspase-9 and Bax were up-regulatedafter corilagin treatment, indicating apoptosis mediated by extrinsic andmitochondrial pathways occurred in MCF-7 cell. Meanwhile, autophagy mediated bysuppressing Akt/mTOR/p70S6K pathway was detected with an increase in autophagicvacuoles and LC3-II conversion. More significantly, inhibition of autophagy bychloroquine diphosphate salt (CQ) remarkably enhanced apoptosis, while thecaspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk failed in affecting autophagy, suggesting thatcorilagin-induced autophagy functioned as a survival mechanism in MCF-7 cells. Inaddition, corilagin induced intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS)generation, when reduced by ROS scavenger NAC, apoptosis and autophagy were both down-regulated. Nevertheless, in SK-BR3 cell which expressed RIP3, necroptosisinhibitor Nec-1 could not alleviate cell death induced by corilagin, indicatingnecroptosis was not triggered. Subcutaneous tumour growth in nude mice wasattenuated by corilagin, consisting with the results in vitro. These resultsimply that corilagin inhibits cancer cell proliferation through inducingapoptosis and autophagy which regulated by ROS release.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.13647 PMCID: PMC6050496PMID: 29923307 