143. J Hum Nutr Diet. 2018 Jun 21. doi: 10.1111/jhn.12571. [Epub ahead of print]'For me it's about not feeling like I'm on a diet': a thematic analysis ofwomen's experiences of an intermittent energy restricted diet to reduce breastcancer risk.Donnelly LS(1), Shaw RL(2), Pegington M(1), Armitage CJ(3), Evans DG(1)(4)(5),Howell A(1)(5), Harvie MN(1).Author information: (1)Nightingale and Prevent Breast Cancer Centre, Manchester University NHSFoundation trust, Wythenshawe, Manchester, UK.(2)School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, WestMidlands, UK.(3)Manchester Centre for Health Psychology, School of Psychological Sciences,Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.(4)Genomic Medicine, Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, University ofManchester and Central Manchester Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.(5)The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Withington, Manchester, UK.BACKGROUND: Weight-loss programmes requiring intermittent energy restrictionoffer an alternative to continuous energy restriction programmes that typicallyhave low adherence. We reported greater weight loss, better adherence andspontaneous reduced energy intake on healthy eating days with intermittent asopposed to continuous energy restriction. The present study aims to explore whyintermittent energy restriction diets exert these positive effects.METHODS: Semi-structured interviews were carried out with 13 women aged 39-62years, who followed a 4-month intermittent energy restriction (2 days of lowenergy/low carbohydrate, 5 days of healthy eating). Nine of the 13 womensuccessfully lost >5% of their total body weight. Data were analysed usingthematic analysis.RESULTS: The intermittent regimen redefined the meaning of dieting and normaleating. Women reconceptualised dieting as only two low energy days per week, eventhough this often differed from their pre-diet eating patterns. Women reportedthat they could adhere more closely to the rules of the intermittent dietcompared to previously attempted continuous diets. They found that theintermittent diet was less cognitively demanding because the restrictive andclear rules of the intermittent diet were easier to understand and easier tofollow than with continuous dieting.CONCLUSIONS: Many participants found intermittent dieting preferable to previous experiences of continuous dieting. The findings provide some insight into theways in which intermittent dieting is successful, and why it could be considered a viable alternative to continuous energy restriction for weight loss.© 2018 The British Dietetic Association Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/jhn.12571 PMID: 29926996 