48. Med Phys. 2018 Jun 19. doi: 10.1002/mp.13054. [Epub ahead of print]Relationship between computer segmentation performance and computerclassification performance in breast CT: A simulation study using RGIsegmentation and LDA classification.Lee J(1), Nishikawa RM(1), Reiser I(2), Boone JM(3).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.(2)Department of Radiology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.(3)Department of Radiology, University of California Davis Medical Center,Sacramento, CA, USA.PURPOSE: Many computer aided diagnosis (CADx) tools for breast cancer begin byfully or semiautomatically segmenting a given breast lesion and then classifying the lesion's likelihood of malignancy using quantitative features extracted from the image. It is often assumed that better segmentation will result in betterclassification. However, this has not been thoroughly evaluated. The purpose ofthis study is to evaluate the relationship between computer segmentationperformance and computer classification performance.METHOD: We used 85 breast lesions (32 benign, 56 malignant) from breast computed tomography (CT) cases of 82 women. We prepared one smooth and one sharp iterativeimage reconstructions (IIR) and a clinical reconstruction for each of the 82breast CT scans. For each reconstruction, we created 15 segmentation outcomes by applying 15 different segmentation algorithms. Specifically, we simulated 15segmentation algorithms by changing parameters in a single segmentationalgorithm. We then created 15 classification outcomes by conducting quantitative image feature analysis on the segmented image results. Using a 10-foldcross-validation, we evaluated the relationship between segmentation andclassification performances.RESULT: We found a low positive correlation between segmentation andclassification performances for the smooth IIR (median Pearson's rho = 0.18),while a moderate positive correlation (median Pearson's rho = 0.4-0.43) was foundbetween the two performances for the sharp IIR and clinical reconstruction.However, we found large variations in both segmentation and classificationperformances for the sharp IIR and clinical reconstruction. There were caseswhere segmentation algorithms resulted in similar segmentation performances, but the corresponding classification performances were different. These resultsindicate that an improvement in segmentation performance does not guarantee animprovement in the corresponding classification performance.CONCLUSION: Computer segmentation is an indirect variable affecting the computer classification. As better segmentation does not guarantee better classification, we should report both segmentation and classification performances when comparingsegmentation algorithms.© 2018 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mp.13054 PMID: 29920684 