Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict ofinterest.50. PLoS Comput Biol. 2018 Jun 19;14(6):e1006192. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006192. eCollection 2018 Jun.Systems modelling of the EGFR-PYK2-c-Met interaction network predicts andprioritizes synergistic drug combinations for triple-negative breast cancer.Shin SY(1), Müller AK(2), Verma N(2), Lev S(2), Nguyen LK(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Biomedicine DiscoveryInstitute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.(2)Molecular Cell Biology Department, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,Israel.Prediction of drug combinations that effectively target cancer cells is acritical challenge for cancer therapy, in particular for triple-negative breastcancer (TNBC), a highly aggressive breast cancer subtype with no effectivetargeted treatment. As signalling pathway networks critically control cancer cellbehaviour, analysis of signalling network activity and crosstalk can help predictpotent drug combinations and rational stratification of patients, thus bringingtherapeutic and prognostic values. We have previously showed that thenon-receptor tyrosine kinase PYK2 is a downstream effector of EGFR and c-Met and demonstrated their crosstalk signalling in basal-like TNBC. Here we applied asystems modelling approach and developed a mechanistic model of the integratedEGFR-PYK2-c-Met signalling network to identify and prioritize potent drugcombinations for TNBC. Model predictions validated by experimental data revealed that among six potential combinations of drug pairs targeting the central nodesof the network, including EGFR, c-Met, PYK2 and STAT3, co-targeting of EGFR andPYK2 and to a lesser extent of EGFR and c-Met yielded strongest synergisticeffect. Importantly, the synergy in co-targeting EGFR and PYK2 was linked toswitch-like cell proliferation-associated responses. Moreover, simulations ofpatient-specific models using public gene expression data of TNBC patients led topredictive stratification of patients into subgroups displaying distinctsusceptibility to specific drug combinations. These results suggest thatmechanistic systems modelling is a powerful approach for the rational design,prediction and prioritization of potent combination therapies for individualpatients, thus providing a concrete step towards personalized treatment for TNBC and other tumour types.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006192 PMCID: PMC6007894PMID: 29920512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]