199. Environ Toxicol. 2018 Jun 19. doi: 10.1002/tox.22573. [Epub ahead of print]Organochlorine pesticide residues in human breast tissue and their relationships with clinical and pathological characteristics of breast cancer.Ellsworth RE(1), Kostyniak PJ(2), Chi LH(2), Shriver CD(1), Costantino NS(3),Ellsworth DL(4).Author information: (1)Murtha Cancer Center, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Bethesda, Maryland.(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, State University of New York atBuffalo, Buffalo, New York.(3)Clinical Breast Care Project, Windber Research Institute, Windber,Pennsylvania.(4)E-squared Genomic Solutions, Johnstown, Pennsylvania.Agricultural pesticides are abundant environmental contaminants worldwide,prompting interest in studying their possible detrimental health effects. Weexamined organochlorine residues by quadrant (n = 245) in breast adipose tissues from 51 women with various stages of breast health to determine patterns ofbioaccumulation within the breast and to assess relationships with patientclinical characteristics. Three organochlorineresidues-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-1,1-dichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE),hexachlorobenzene (HCB), and mirex-assayed by high resolution gas chromatography were abundant in breast tissue. p,p'-DDE (745 ± 1054 ng/g lipid) was the mostprevalent residue, comprising 97.5% of the total chemical burden. Mean levels of p,p'-DDE and HCB were significantly correlated (P < .001) with patient age atmastectomy, and levels of p,p'-DDE were correlated (P < .05) with BMI. Pesticide concentrations did not differ significantly by breast quadrant and were notdifferent in the quadrant(s) where the primary tumor was located compared toother cancer-free quadrants. In invasive cancer patients, organochlorine levelsdiffered significantly based on clinical characteristics of the primarycarcinoma, including stage, grade, ER status, and HER2 status, indicating thatbody burden of organochlorines may influence the development of specific subtypesof breast cancer. Potentially carcinogenic organochlorines were present at highlevels within the human breast warranting further research to determine theimpact of organochlorines in the etiology of breast cancer.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/tox.22573 PMID: 29923341 