137. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2018 Jun 21:1-6. doi: 10.18553/jmcp.2018.18083. [Epubahead of print]The Effect of Medical Technology Innovations on Patient Outcomes, 1990-2015:Results of a Physician Survey.Wamble DE(1), Ciarametaro M(2), Dubois R(2).Author information: (1)1 RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.(2)2 National Pharmaceutical Council, Washington, DC.BACKGROUND: Developments in diagnostics, medical devices, procedures, andprescription drugs have increased life expectancy and quality of life afterdiagnosis for many diseases. Previous research has shown that, overall, increasedinvestment in medical technology has led to increased health outcomes. Inaddition, the value of investment in specific innovations, particularly in newpharmaceuticals or biopharmaceuticals, has frequently been shown through anevaluation of the associated health outcomes and costs. Value assessments for allmedical technologies and interventions are an important consideration in current debates on access and affordability of health care in the United States.OBJECTIVE: To identify practicing physician impressions of the historical effect of postdiagnosis innovations in medical technology on patient outcomes within the8 health conditions that have the largest effect on health in the United States.METHODS: National statistics were used to identify the 8 conditions responsiblefor the most mortality and morbidity within the United States between 1990 and2014. A physician survey was developed for each major condition to obtainphysician opinion on the extent to which pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals, medical devices, diagnostics, and surgical procedures contributed to improvementsin postdiagnosis mortality and morbidity outcomes over the evaluated period.Respondents were provided with a fifth category, "cannot allocate," to accountfor postdiagnosis outcome gains resulting from other factors such as publichealth interventions.RESULTS: The conditions identified as having the greatest effect on morbidity andmortality since 1990 were breast cancer, ischemic heart disease, humanimmunodeficiency virus infection, diabetes, unipolar depression, chronicobstructive pulmonary disease, cerebrovascular disease, and lung cancer. Afterexcluding other factors, physicians specializing in these conditions, with a meanof 21.4 years in practice, considered pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals ashaving the greatest postdiagnosis effect across all 8 conditions, with 56% ofoutcome gains attributed to this innovation category. Diagnostics was the second biggest contributor at 20%.CONCLUSIONS: Physician perceptions indicated that attention should be paid tovalue assessments of innovative diagnostics, devices, and surgical procedures, aswell as to pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals, before goals for allocatinghealth care expenditures among the different innovations are determined.DISCLOSURES: Funding for this study was provided by the National PharmaceuticalCouncil, a health policy research group that receives its funding frombiopharmaceutical manufacturers. Wamble is employed by RTI Health Solutions,which received funding from the National Pharmaceutical Council to conduct thisresearch. Ciarametaro and Dubois are employed by the National PharmaceuticalCouncil.DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2018.18083 PMID: 29927346 