2. J Intern Med. 2018 Jun 20. doi: 10.1111/joim.12806. [Epub ahead of print]Statins: a role in breast cancer therapy?Borgquist S(1)(2), Bjarnadottir O(2), Kimbung S(2), Ahern TP(3).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus C, Denmark.(2)Division of Oncology and Pathology, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.(3)Departments of Surgery and Biochemistry, The Robert Larner, MD College ofMedicine, The University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, USA.Statin drugs have been used for more than two decades to treathypercholesterolemia and as cardio-preventive drugs, resulting in a markeddecrease in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality worldwide. Statins halthepatic cholesterol biosynthesis by inhibiting the rate-limiting enzyme in themevalonate pathway, hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR). Themevalonate pathway regulates a host of biochemical processes in addition tocholesterol production. Attenuation of these pathways is likely responsible forthe myriad benefits of statin therapy beyond cholesterol reduction - theso-called pleiotropic effects of statins. Chief amongst these purported effectsis anti-cancer activity. A considerable body of preclinical, epidemiologic andclinical evidence shows that statins impair proliferation of breast cancer cells and reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence. Potential mechanisms for thiseffect have been explored in laboratory models, but remain poorly understood and require further investigation. The number of clinical trials assessing theputative clinical benefit of statins in breast cancer is increasing. Currently, atotal of 30 breast cancer/statin trials are listed at the global trial identifierwebsite clinicaltrials.gov. Given the compelling evidence from performed trialsin a variety of clinical settings, there have been calls for a clinical trial of statins in the adjuvant breast cancer setting. It would be imperative for such a trial to incorporate tumour biomarkers predictive of statin response in itsdesign and analysis plan. Ongoing translational clinical trials aimed atbiomarker discovery will help identify, which breast cancer patients are mostlikely to benefit from adjuvant statin therapy, and will add valuable clinicalknowledge to the field.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Internal Medicine published by John Wiley & SonsLtd on behalf of Association for Publication of The Journal of Internal Medicine.DOI: 10.1111/joim.12806 PMID: 29923256 