43. BMC Cancer. 2018 Jun 19;18(1):670. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4587-z.TGF-β signaling promotes tumor vasculature by enhancing the pericyte-endothelium association.Zonneville J(1), Safina A(2), Truskinovsky AM(3), Arteaga CL(4), Bakin AV(5).Author information: (1)Department of Cancer Genetics, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NewYork, 14263, USA.(2)Department of Cell Stress Biology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NewYork, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York,USA.(4)Harold C. Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, UT Southwestern Medical Center,Dallas, TX, USA.(5)Department of Cancer Genetics, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NewYork, 14263, USA. andrei.bakin@roswellpark.org.BACKGROUND: The breast cancer microenvironment promotes tumor vascularizationthrough the complex interactions involving tumor-associated fibroblasts (TAFs).Emerging data indicate that TAFs increase production and signaling by TGF-βcytokines, while the role of TGF-β signaling in the regulation of tumor bloodvessels is not fully understood. The current study presents evidence that TAFsenhance the organization of tumor blood capillaries, and TGF-β signaling plays animportant role in this response.METHODS: Tumor vascularization was studied in xenograft models of breastcarcinoma cells, alone and in combination with fibroblasts. TGF-β signaling inbreast cancer cells was modulated by expression of kinase-inactive TGFBR1-K232R(dnTGFBR1) or constitutive-active TGFBR1-T204D (caTGFBR1) receptor mutants. Thearchitecture of tumor blood capillaries was assessed by immune-histochemicalanalysis of endothelium and pericytes. The role of TGF-β-Smad signaling infibronectin expression was examined using adenoviral transduction of signalingcomponents.RESULTS: Our studies revealed that TAFs significantly increase the lumen size of blood microvessels. Inactivation of TGF-β signaling in tumor cells by dnTGFBR1reduced the microvessel density and lumen sizes, decreasing tumor growth. Incontrast, caTGFBR1-tumors exhibited greater vessel density and lumen sizes.Tumors with inactive dnTGFBR1 showed lower amounts of TAFs, while caTGFBR1increased amounts of TAFs compared to the control. Inspection of pericytes andendothelial cells in tumor vasculature revealed that TAFs enhanced vesselcoverage by pericytes, vascular cells supporting capillaries. This effect wasimpaired in dnTGFBR1-tumors, whereas active caTGFBR1 enhanced the association of pericytes with endothelium. Accordingly, dnTGFBR1-tumors exhibited the presenceof hemorrhages, a sign of fragile blood vessels. Biochemical analysis showed thatTGFBR1-SMAD signaling up-regulates fibronectin, a prominent regulator ofendothelium-pericyte interactions.CONCLUSIONS: The current study indicates that tumor-fibroblast crosstalk enhancestumor vascularization by increasing the pericyte-endothelium association via amechanism involving the TGFβ-fibronectin axis. The tumor-fibroblast modelrepresents a useful system for dissecting the complex interactions governingtumor angiogenesis and developing new approaches to therapeutic targeting tumorvasculature.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4587-z PMCID: PMC6008941PMID: 29921235 