21. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Jun 5;9:583. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00583. eCollection2018.DeCoST: A New Approach in Drug Repurposing From Control System Theory.Nguyen TM(1), Muhammad SA(2), Ibrahim S(3), Ma L(4), Guo J(4), Bai B(4), ZengB(5).Author information: (1)Department of Computer and Information Science, Indiana University-PurdueUniversity Indianapolis, Indianapolis, IN, United States.(2)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Bahauddin ZakariyaUniversity, Multan, Pakistan.(3)Department of Biology, School of Science, Indiana University-Purdue UniversityIndianapolis, Indianapolis, IN, United States.(4)The 1st School of Medicine and School of Information and Engineering, Wenzhou Medical University, Zhejiang, China.(5)Institute of Lasers and Biomedical Photonics, Wenzhou Medical University,Wenzhou, China.In this paper, we propose DeCoST (Drug Repurposing from Control System Theory)framework to apply control system paradigm for drug repurposing purpose. Drugrepurposing has become one of the most active areas in pharmacology since thelast decade. Compared to traditional drug development, drug repurposing mayprovide more systematic and significantly less expensive approaches indiscovering new treatments for complex diseases. Although drug repurposingtechniques rapidly evolve from "one: disease-gene-drug" to "multi: gene, dru" andfrom "lazy guilt-by-association" to "systematic model-based pattern matching,"mathematical system and control paradigm has not been widely applied to model thesystem biology connectivity among drugs, genes, and diseases. In this paradigm,our DeCoST framework, which is among the earliest approaches in drug repurposing with control theory paradigm, applies biological and pharmaceutical knowledge to quantify rich connective data sources among drugs, genes, and diseases toconstruct disease-specific mathematical model. We use linear-quadratic regulator control technique to assess the therapeutic effect of a drug in disease-specific treatment. DeCoST framework could classify between FDA-approved drugs andrejected/withdrawn drug, which is the foundation to apply DeCoST in recommending potentially new treatment. Applying DeCoST in Breast Cancer and Bladder Cancer,we reprofiled 8 promising candidate drugs for Breast Cancer ER+ (Erbitux,Flutamide, etc.), 2 drugs for Breast Cancer ER- (Daunorubicin and Donepezil) and 10 drugs for Bladder Cancer repurposing (Zafirlukast, Tenofovir, etc.).DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00583 PMCID: PMC5996185PMID: 29922160 