107. NMR Biomed. 2018 Jun 21:e3936. doi: 10.1002/nbm.3936. [Epub ahead of print]Molecular causes of elevated phosphoethanolamine in breast and pancreatic cancer cells.Shah T(1), Krishnamachary B(1), Wildes F(1), Wijnen JP(1)(2), Glunde K(1)(3),Bhujwalla ZM(1)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Division of Cancer Imaging Research, The Russell H Morgan Department ofRadiology and Radiological Science, The Johns Hopkins University, School ofMedicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.(2)Centre of Image Sciences/High Field MR Research Group, Radiology, UniversityMedical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.(3)Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University,School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, The JohnsHopkins University, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.Elevated phosphoethanolamine (PE) is frequently observed in MRS studies of human cancers and xenografts. The role of PE in cell survival and the molecular causes underlying this increase are, however, relatively underexplored. In this study,we investigated the roles of ethanolamine kinases (Etnk-1 and 2) and cholinekinases (Chk-α and β) in contributing to increased PE in human breast andpancreatic cancer cells. We investigated the effect of silencing Etnk-1 andEtnk-2 on cell viability as a potential therapeutic strategy. Both breast andpancreatic cancer cells showed higher PE compared with their nonmalignantcounterparts. We identified Etnk-1 as a major cause of the elevated PE levels in these cancer cells, with little or no contribution from Chk-α, Chk-β, or Etnk-2. The increase of PE observed in pancreatic cancer cells in culture was replicated in the corresponding tumor xenografts. Downregulation of Etnk-1 with siRNAresulted in cell cytotoxicity that correlated with PE levels in breast andpancreatic cancer cells. Etnk-1 may provide a potential therapeutic target inbreast and pancreatic cancers.Copyright © 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/nbm.3936 PMID: 29928787 