4. J Cell Physiol. 2018 Jun 19. doi: 10.1002/jcp.26792. [Epub ahead of print]EGFL7: Master regulator of cancer pathogenesis, angiogenesis and an emergingmediator of bone homeostasis.Hong G(1)(2), Kuek V(2), Shi J(3), Zhou L(4), Han X(5), He W(1)(6), Tickner J(2),Qiu H(2), Wei Q(1)(6), Xu J(1)(2).Author information: (1)National Key Discipline and Orthopedic Laboratory, Guangzhou University ofChinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.(2)Division of Regenerative Medicine, School of Biomedical Sciences, TheUniversity of Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia.(3)First Clinical College, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou,Guangdong, China.(4)Department of Rheumatology, The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou MedicalUniversity, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.(5)Department of Radiography, Guangzhou First People's Hospital, The SecondAffiliated Hospital of South China University of Technology, Guangzhou,Guangdong, China.(6)Orthopedic Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Universityof Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.Epidermal growth factor-like domain-containing protein 7 (EGFL7), a member of theepidermal growth factor (EGF)-like protein family, is a potent angiogenic factor expressed in many different cell types. EGFL7 plays a vital role in controllingvascular angiogenesis during embryogenesis, organogenesis, and maintainingskeletal homeostasis. It regulates cellular functions by mediating the mainsignaling pathways (Notch, integrin) and EGF receptor cascades. Accumulatingevidence suggests that Egfl7 plays a crucial role in cancer biology by modulatingtumor angiogenesis, metastasis, and invasion. Dysregulation of Egfl7 has beenfrequently found in several types of cancers, such as malignant glioma,colorectal carcinoma, oral and oesophageal cancers, gastric cancer,hepatocellular carcinoma, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, lung cancer,osteosarcoma, and acute myeloid leukemia. In addition, altered expression ofmiR-126, a microRNA associated with Egfl7, was found to play an important role inoncogenesis. More recently, our study has shown that EGFL7 is expressed in boththe osteoclast and osteoblast lineages and promotes endothelial cell activitiesvia extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and integrin signaling cascades, indicative of itsangiogenic regulation in the bone microenvironment. Thus, understanding the role of EGFL7 may provide novel insights into the development of improved diagnostics and therapeutic treatment for cancers and skeletal pathological disorders, suchas ischemic osteonecrosis and bone fracture healing.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcp.26792 PMID: 29923200 