142. Psychooncology. 2018 Jun 21. doi: 10.1002/pon.4813. [Epub ahead of print]Does sharing good news buffer fear of bad news? A daily diary study of fear ofcancer recurrence in couples approaching the first mammogram post-diagnosis.Soriano EC(1), Perndorfer C(1), Otto AK(1), Siegel SD(2), Laurenceau JP(1).Author information: (1)University of Delaware, Newark, DE, United States.(2)Helen F. Graham Cancer Center and Research Institute, Newark, DE, UnitedStates.OBJECTIVE: The core of fear of cancer recurrence (FCR)-a top concern of couplesafter successful breast cancer (BC) treatment-is fear of death. Dailyrelationship processes may be instrumental in regulating FCR as triggers ofexistential distress are encountered. We tested the hypothesis that dailycapitalization, the process of sharing good news (capitalization attempts) to apartner perceived as responsive (responsiveness), buffers patient and spouse FCR as they confront the first mammogram post-diagnosis.METHODS: Fifty-seven early-stage BC survivors and their spouses reported dailyFCR, capitalization, and positivity of the disclosed event during a 3-week diary period beginning 2 weeks before the first annual mammogram post-diagnosis. Dyadicmultilevel path models estimated within-person effects of patient and spousecapitalization on same-day FCR, controlling for event positivity.RESULTS: Before the mammogram, capitalization attempts were unrelated to FCR, butfor patients, responsiveness was predictive of greater same-day FCR. After themammogram, for both partners, attempts were predictive of greater same-day FCR,yet responsiveness was predictive of lower FCR.CONCLUSIONS: Findings were largely inconsistent with the hypothesis thatcapitalization buffers existential distress. However, results revealed novelinsights about daily dyadic processes that may characterize within-personadaptation to existential threat. Potential explanations for the differentiallinks between capitalization and FCR based on timing (before versus after threat)and capitalization component (attempts versus responsiveness) are discussed.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4813 PMID: 29927016 