195. Biomater Sci. 2018 Jul 24;6(8):2144-2155. doi: 10.1039/c8bm00381e.Regulating the Golgi apparatus by co-delivery of a COX-2 inhibitor and Brefeldin A for suppression of tumor metastasis.Yu RY (1), Xing L , Cui PF , Qiao JB , He YJ , Chang X , Zhou TJ , Jin QR , JiangHL , Xiao Y .Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Department of Pharmaceutics, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210009, China. cpuyanyuxiao@163.com.Finding a cure for breast cancer currently remains a medical challenge in due to the failure of common treatment methods to inhibit invasion and metastasis ofcancer cells, which eventually leads to recurrence of breast cancer. Manysecreted proteins are overexpressed and play crucial roles in tumorigenesis anddevelopment. The Golgi apparatus is a key protein processing and secretionfactory in which metastasis-associated proteins are modified, transported andsecreted; thus, regulating the Golgi apparatus of tumor cells is a viablestrategy to inhibit tumor metastasis. Herein, celecoxib (CLX) and Brefeldin A(BFA) were encapsulated into the biocompatible polymer PLGA-PEG to formnanoparticles that act on the Golgi apparatus to treat metastatic breast cancer; CLX is a specific COX-2 inhibitor which accumulates in the Golgi apparatus, andBFA is a protein transport inhibitor fusing the Golgi apparatus into endoplasmic reticulum. The optimized CLX and BFA co-loaded nanoparticles (CBNPs) possessedgood physicochemical properties. CBNPs efficiently damaged the Golgi apparatuswithin 30 min and showed enhanced cytotoxicity of CLX and BFA toward murinemetastatic breast cancer 4T1 cells. The migration and invasion abilities of thecells were dramatically suppressed by the CBNPs. Further, the expression andsecretion of metastasis-associated proteins such as matrix metalloproteinase-9(MMP-9) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were remarkably decreased. Our findings showed that co-delivering CLX and BFA to regulate the Golgiapparatus may be an efficient strategy to inhibit breast cancer growth andsuppress tumor cell metastasis.DOI: 10.1039/c8bm00381e PMID: 29923556 