Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare thatthey have no competing interest related to this work.83. Theranostics. 2018 May 9;8(12):3176-3188. doi: 10.7150/thno.23207. eCollection2018.The HER2 inhibitor lapatinib potentiates doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicitythrough iNOS signaling.Hsu WT(1)(2), Huang CY(1), Yen CYT(1), Cheng AL(3), Hsieh PCH(1)(4)(5)(6).Author information: (1)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taiwan.(2)School of Pharmacy, National Taiwan University, Taiwan.(3)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University and Hospital, Taiwan.(4)Institute of Medical Genomics and Proteomics, National Taiwan UniversityCollege of Medicine, Taiwan.(5)Institute of Clinical Medicine, National Taiwan University College ofMedicine, Taiwan.(6)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, National TaiwanUniversity Hospital, Taiwan.Rationale: Lapatinib (LAP) is a crucial alternative to trastuzumab upon the onsetof drug resistance during treatment of metastatic human epidermal growth factorreceptor 2-positive breast cancer. Like trastuzumab, LAP is commonly usedalongside anthracyclines as a combination therapy, due to enhanced anti-cancerefficacy. However, this is notably associated with cardiotoxicity so it isimperative to understand the mechanisms driving this cardiotoxicity and developcardioprotective strategies. To this end, here we utilize human pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hPSC-CMs), which exhibit several characteristicsrepresentative of in vivo cardiomyocytes that make them breakthrough models tostudy drug toxicity. Methods: We investigated LAP- and doxorubicin (DOX)-induced toxicity in hPSC-CMs and evaluated the involvement of inducible nitric oxide (NO)synthase (iNOS). The significance of iNOS-mediated cardiotoxicity was furthermoreevaluated in animal studies. Results: LAP synergistically increased DOX toxicity in hPSC-CMs in a dose- and time-dependent manner. At concentrations that wereotherwise non-apoptotic when administered separately, LAP significantlypotentiated DOX-induced hPSC-CM apoptosis. This was accompanied by increased iNOSexpression and pronounced production of NO. iNOS inhibition significantly reducedhPSC-CM sensitivity to LAP and DOX co-treatment (LAP-plus-DOX), leading toreduced apoptosis. Consistent with our observations in vitro, delivery of an iNOSinhibitor in mice treated with LAP-plus-DOX attenuated myocardial apoptosis andsystolic dysfunction. Moreover, inhibition of iNOS did not compromise theanti-cancer potency of LAP-plus-DOX in a murine breast cancer xenograft model.Conclusions: Our findings suggest that iNOS inhibition is a promisingcardioprotective strategy to accompany HER2-inhibitor/anthracycline combinationtherapies. Furthermore, these results support the promise of hPSC-CMs as aplatform for investigating cardiotoxicity and developing cardioprotectants as awhole.DOI: 10.7150/thno.23207 PMCID: PMC6010982PMID: 29930721 