165. Pain Manag Nurs. 2018 Jun 21. pii: S1524-9042(17)30011-5. doi:10.1016/j.pmn.2018.05.002. [Epub ahead of print]The Effect of the Pain Symptom Cluster on Performance in Women Diagnosed withAdvanced Breast Cancer: The Mediating Role of the Psychoneurological SymptomCluster.Hamash KI(1), Umberger W(2), Aktas A(3), Walsh D(4), Cheruvu VK(5).Author information: (1)From the Nursing Department, Indiana University-Fort Wayne (IUFW), Fort Wayne,IN, USA. Electronic address: Khamash@iu.edu.(2)College of Nursing, Kent State University, Kent, OH, USA.(3)Section of Palliative Medicine and Supportive Oncology, Department of SolidTumor Oncology, Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland, OH, USA;The Harry R. Horvitz Center for Palliative Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland,OH, USA.(4)Section of Palliative Medicine and Supportive Oncology, Department of SolidTumor Oncology, Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland, OH, USA;The Harry R. Horvitz Center for Palliative Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland,OH, USA; Faculty of Health Sciences, Trinity College, Dublin 2, Ireland.(5)Department of Biostatistics, Environmental Health Sciences and Epidemiology,College of Public Health, Kent State University, Kent, OH, USA.BACKGROUND: Pain, depression, anxiety, sleep disturbances, and constipation were reported in different symptom clusters at different stages of breast cancer.Managing symptom clusters rather than individual symptoms can improve performancestatus.AIM: The study examined the effect of pain symptom cluster (pain andconstipation) on performance when mediated by the psychoneurological symptomcluster (depression, anxiety, and sleep disturbances) using age as a moderator.DESIGN: A secondary analysis.SETTINGS: Palliative care center at a tertiary medical center in northeast Ohio.PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-six women diagnosed with advanced breast cancer.METHOD: A quantitative cross-sectional approach.RESULTS: Ordinal logistic regression showed that pain symptom cluster did nothave a significant mediation effect on performance. Odds ratio indicated thatsubjects with pain symptom cluster were 63% more likely to be bedridden (oddsratio = 1.63, confidence interval = .69-3.84). Women who reported pain symptomcluster were 5% more likely to have psychoneurological symptom cluster (oddsratio = 1.05, confidence interval = .400-2.774). Stratified analysis of ageshowed no differences in performance. Post-hoc analysis showed that thecomponents of pain symptom cluster had a significant effect on psychoneurologicalsymptom cluster (odds ratio: 3 [1.18-7.62]).CONCLUSIONS: Pain, constipation, depression, anxiety, and sleep disturbances werehighly prevalent in women with advanced breast cancer. However, they tended tocluster in different symptom clusters. Although some findings were notsignificant, they all supported the direction of the tested hypotheses.Variations in symptom clusters research, including methodology, instruments,statistical tests, and chosen symptom cluster correlation coefficient, should be addressed.Copyright © 2018 American Society for Pain Management Nursing. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.pmn.2018.05.002 PMID: 29937228 