56. Cancer. 2018 Jun 22. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31559. [Epub ahead of print]A home-based mentored vegetable gardening intervention demonstrates feasibilityand improvements in physical activity and performance among breast cancersurvivors.Bail JR(1), Frugé AD(2), Cases MG(3), De Los Santos JF(4), Locher JL(5), SmithKP(6), Cantor AB(7), Cohen HJ(8), Demark-Wahnefried W(1).Author information: (1)Department of Nutrition Sciences, University of Alabama at Birmingham,Birmingham, Alabama.(2)Department of Nutrition, Dietetics, and Hospitality Management, AuburnUniversity, Auburn, Alabama.(3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University,Stanford, California.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Alabama at Birmingham,Birmingham, Alabama.(5)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,Alabama.(6)Alabama Cooperative Extension System, Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama.(7)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham,Birmingham, Alabama.(8)Deparment of Medicine, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.BACKGROUND: The current study assessed the feasibility of a mentored home-basedvegetable gardening intervention and examined changes in health-related outcomes among breast cancer survivors (BCS).METHODS: BCS were randomized to either a year-long vegetable gardeningintervention to begin immediately or a wait-list control. Master Gardenersmentored participants in planning, planting, and maintaining 3 seasonal gardensover the course of 1 year. Participant accrual, retention, and satisfaction ratesof ≥80% served as feasibility (primary outcome) benchmarks. Secondary outcomes(ie, vegetable consumption, physical activity, performance and function,anthropometrics, biomarkers, and health-related quality of life) were collectedat baseline and post-intervention (1-year follow-up) using subjective andobjective measures.RESULTS: The trial surpassed all feasibility benchmarks at 82% of targetedaccrual, 95% retention, and 100% satisfaction (ie, experience ratings of "good toexcellent" and willingness to "do it again"). Compared with the controls,intervention participants reported significantly greater improvements in moderatephysical activity (+14 vs -17 minutes/week) and demonstrated improvements in the 2-Minute Step Test (+22 vs + 10 steps), and Arm Curl (+2.7 vs + 0.1 repetitions) (P values < .05). A trend toward improved vegetable consumption was observed(+0.9 vs + 0.2 servings/day; P = .06). Approximately 86% of participants werecontinuing to garden at the 2-year follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study suggest that a mentored, home-basedvegetable gardening intervention is feasible and offers an integrative anddurable approach with which to improve health behaviors and outcomes among BCS.Harvest for Health led to the establishment of a group of trained MasterGardeners and gave rise to local and global community-based programs. Largerstudies are needed to confirm the results presented herein and to defineapplicability across broader populations of survivors. Cancer 2018. © 2018American Cancer Society.© 2018 American Cancer Society.DOI: 10.1002/cncr.31559 PMID: 29932460 