14. J Reconstr Microsurg. 2018 Jun 23. doi: 10.1055/s-0038-1660832. [Epub ahead ofprint]The Effect of Exercise on Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema: What the LymphaticSurgeon Needs to Know.Panchik D(1), Masco S(2), Zinnikas P(3), Hillriegel B(1), Lauder T(1), SuttmannE(1), Chinchilli V(4), McBeth M(5), Hermann W(6).Author information: (1)Department of Occupational Therapy, Elizabethtown College, Elizabethtown,Pennsylvania.(2)Department of Occupational Therapy, Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital,Hamilton, New Jersey.(3)Department of Occupational Therapy, Genesis Rehab Services, Piscataway, NewJersey.(4)Department of Public Health Sciences, PennState College of Medicine, Hershey, Pennsylvania.(5)Department of Physical Therapy, Bodywise Physical Therapy, LLC, Columbia,Maryland.(6)Department of Occupational Therapy, WellSpan, York, Pennsylvania.BACKGROUND:  Breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) affects many areas of daily living. Individuals with lymphedema may experience chronic and progressiveswelling, recurrent skin infections, and decreased self-image and quality oflife. For many years, it was considered best practice for this population toavoid exercise; however, in recent years, research has begun to challenge thisbelief. This systematic review and meta-analyses examined the recent literatureon the effects of exercise for patients with, or at risk for, BCRL to inform bestpractice.METHODS:  A total of 807 articles were retrieved from CINAHL, Academic SearchComplete, Medline, and PubMed. Results were systematically filtered to 26articles through inclusion criteria, exclusion criteria, and the Effective PublicHealth Practice Project quality assessment tool for quantitative studies. Datawere pooled from studies containing relative and absolute volume measurements of limb volume, as well as upper extremity function measured by the Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) questionnaire; meta-analyses were conducted using SAS software.RESULTS:  The literature was reviewed and statistically analyzed. Results haveindicated aerobic exercise, resistance exercise, stretching, yoga, qigong, andpilates can be safe and effective in the management of symptoms for those with,or at risk for, BCRL.CONCLUSION:  Several forms of exercise appear to be safe interventions forclinicians to use when treating this population and offer benefits such asimproved quality of life, strength, body mass index, and mental health anddecreased pain and lymphatic swelling. Additional research should be conducted tofurther examine the efficacy and safety of nontraditional forms of exercise inthe treatment of BCRL.Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1660832 PMID: 29935493 