129. Biostatistics. 2018 Jun 24. doi: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxy022. [Epub ahead ofprint]Using multivariate mixed-effects selection models for analyzing batch-processedproteomics data with non-ignorable missingness.Wang J(1), Wang P(2), Hedeker D(1), Chen LS(1).Author information: (1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Chicago, 5841 S. Maryland Ave., Chicago, IL 60637, USA.(2)Department of Genetics and Genomics Sciences, Icahn Institute for Genomics andMultiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 770 LexingtonAvenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.In quantitative proteomics, mass tag labeling techniques have been widely adoptedin mass spectrometry experiments. These techniques allow peptides (short aminoacid sequences) and proteins from multiple samples of a batch being detected and quantified in a single experiment, and as such greatly improve the efficiency of protein profiling. However, the batch-processing of samples also results insevere batch effects and non-ignorable missing data occurring at the batch level.Motivated by the breast cancer proteomic data from the Clinical Proteomic TumorAnalysis Consortium, in this work, we developed two tailored multivariateMIxed-effects SElection models (mvMISE) to jointly analyze multiple correlatedpeptides/proteins in labeled proteomics data, considering the batch effects andthe non-ignorable missingness. By taking a multivariate approach, we can borrowinformation across multiple peptides of the same protein or multiple proteinsfrom the same biological pathway, and thus achieve better statistical efficiency and biological interpretation. These two different models account for differentcorrelation structures among a group of peptides or proteins. Specifically, tomodel multiple peptides from the same protein, we employed a factor-analyticrandom effects structure to characterize the high and similar correlations among peptides. To model biological dependence among multiple proteins in a functional pathway, we introduced a graphical lasso penalty on the error precision matrix,and implemented an efficient algorithm based on the alternating direction method of multipliers. Simulations demonstrated the advantages of the proposed models.Applying the proposed methods to the motivating data set, we identifiedphosphoproteins and biological pathways that showed different activity patternsin triple negative breast tumors versus other breast tumors. The proposed methodscan also be applied to other high-dimensional multivariate analyses based onclustered data with or without non-ignorable missingness.DOI: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxy022 PMID: 29939200 