21. Med Phys. 2018 Jun 23. doi: 10.1002/mp.13059. [Epub ahead of print]An investigation into the INTRABEAM miniature x-ray source dosimetry usingionization chamber and radiochromic film measurements.Watson PGF(1), Bekerat H(2), Papaconstadopoulos P(2), Davis S(1), Seuntjens J(1).Author information: (1)Medical Physics Unit, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.(2)Medical Physics Unit, Department of Radiation Oncology, SMBD Jewish GeneralHospital, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.PURPOSE: Intraoperative radiotherapy using The INTRABEAM System (Carl ZeissMeditec AG, Jena, Germany), a miniature low-energy x-ray source, has proven to bean effective modality in the treatment of breast cancer. However, someuncertainties remain in its dosimetry. In this work, we investigated theINTRABEAM system dosimetry by performing ionization chamber and radiochromic filmmeasurements of absorbed dose in a water phantom.METHODS: Ionization chamber measurements were performed with a PTW 34013parallel-plate soft x-ray chamber at source to detector distances of 5 to 30 mmcalculated using (a) the dose formula consistent with the TARGIT breast protocol (TARGIT), (b) the formula recommended by the manufacturer (Zeiss), and (c) therecently proposed CQ formalism of Watson et al. (Physics in Medicine & Biology,2018;63:015016) EBT3 Gafchromic film measurements were made at the same depths inwater. To account for the energy dependence of EBT3 film, multiple dose response calibration curves were employed across a range of photon beam qualities relevantto the INTRABEAM spectrum in water.RESULTS: At all depths investigated, the TARGIT dose was significantly lower thanthat measured by the Zeiss and CQ methods, as well as film. These dosedifferences ranged from 14% to as large as 80%. In general, the doses measured byfilm, and the Zeiss and CQ methods were in good agreement to within measurementuncertainties (5-6%).CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the TARGIT dose underestimates thephysical dose to water from the INTRABEAM source. Understanding the correlationbetween the TARGIT and physical dose is important for any studies wishing to makedosimetric comparisons between the INTRABEAM and other radiation emittingdevices.© 2018 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mp.13059 PMID: 29935088 