127. Bioinformatics. 2018 Jun 22. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bty503. [Epub ahead ofprint]Predicting miRNA-disease association based on inductive matrix completion.Chen X(1), Wang L(1), Qu J(1), Guan NN(2), Li JQ(2).Author information: (1)School of Information and Control Engineering, China University of Mining and Technology, Xuzhou, China.(2)College of Computer Science and Software Engineering, Shenzhen University,Shenzhen, China.Motivation: It has been shown that microRNAs (miRNAs) play key roles in varietyof biological processes associated with human diseases. In Consideration of thecost and complexity of biological experiments, computational methods forpredicting potential associations between miRNAs and diseases would be aneffective complement.Results: This paper presents a novel model of Inductive Matrix Completion forMiRNA-Disease Association prediction (IMCMDA). The integrated miRNA similarityand disease similarity are calculated based on miRNA functional similarity,disease semantic similarity and Gaussian interaction profile kernel similarity.The main idea is to complete the missing miRNA-disease association based on theknown associations and the integrated miRNA similarity and disease similarity.IMCMDA achieves AUC of 0.8034 based on leave-one-out-cross-validation andimproved previous models. In addition, IMCMDA was applied to five common humandiseases in three types of case studies. In the first type, respectively, 42, 44,45 out of top 50 predicted miRNAs of Colon Neoplasms, Kidney Neoplasms, Lymphoma were confirmed by experimental reports. In the second type of case study for new diseases without any known miRNAs, we chose Breast Neoplasms as the test example by hiding the association information between the miRNAs and Breast Neoplasms. Asa result, 50 out of top 50 predicted Breast Neoplasms-related miRNAs areverified. In the third type of case study, IMCMDA was tested on HMDD V1.0 toassess the robustness of IMCMDA, 49 out of top 50 predicted EsophagealNeoplasms-related miRNAs are verified.Availability: The code and dataset of IMCMDA are freely available athttps://github.com/IMCMDAsourcecode/IMCMDA.Supplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformaticsonline.DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bty503 PMID: 29939227 