179. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2018 Jun 23;40(6):401-405. doi:10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2018.06.001.[Diagnosis and treatment of osteoblastic metastasis in patients with breastcancer].[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]Meng XY(1), Song ST(1).Author information: (1)Cancer Center of Chinese People's Liberation Army, the 307th Hospital ofChinese People's Liberation Army, Beijing 100071, China.Osteoblastic metastasis of breast cancer is relatively rare, but there are cases of misdiagnosis and mistreatment in clinical treatment. They can only bediagnosed by X ray or CT bone scan and must be identified from bone repair after effective treatment in patients with osteolytic or mixed bone metastases. Bonemetastasis is often seen in the disease-free condition of breast cancer, and veryfew can occur in stage Ⅳ lesions prior to surgery. Based on the analysis ofclinical phenomena, we questioned the evaluation criteria of the therapeuticeffect on bone metastasis of breast cancer created by the World HealthOrganization and the MD Anderson Cancer Center and concluded the formationmechanism of bone metastasis. For patients with simple osteoblastic bonemetastasis, we broke through the recommendations of the National ComprehensiveCancer Network guideline and advocated the concept of "noninterference" .Patients with positive hormone receptor can be treated with traditional endocrinetherapy. Hormone receptor negative and/or human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 positive patients can be observed first, followed by chemotherapy and/ortargeted therapy when there is osteolytic bone metastasis or visceral metastasis.Furthermore, bisphosphonates are not required since osteoblastic bone metastasis is generally not associated with the risk of bone related events. The activetreatment of primary lesion should be taken into account in stage Ⅳ patientbefore operation.Publisher:乳腺癌成骨转移相对少见，但是临床上时有误诊误治的患者。成骨转移只能通过X线或CT骨窗扫描得以诊断，但还需与溶骨或混合性转移治疗有效的成骨修复患者相鉴别。成骨转移常发生于乳腺癌的无病状态，罕见于术前Ⅳ期病变患者。本文透过临床现象，对世界卫生组织和美国MD安德森癌症治疗中心制订的乳腺癌骨转移疗效评价标准提出质疑，并推断成骨转移的形成机制。对单纯成骨转移患者，突破美国国家综合癌症网络指南的建议，提倡无为而治的理念。激素受体阳性患者当然适用内分泌治疗，可继续沿用原来辅助内分泌药物；激素受体阴性和(或)人表皮生长因子受体2阳性患者，先不治疗，待出现溶骨或内脏转移时再用化疗和(或)靶向治疗。因为成骨转移一般不存在骨相关事件的风险，不需要用双膦酸盐。术前Ⅳ期患者还应首先顾及原发病灶的积极治疗。.PMID: 29936763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]