55. JBRA Assist Reprod. 2018 Jun 22. doi: 10.5935/1518-0557.20180032. [Epub ahead of print]Motherhood after breast cancer: can we balance fertility preservation and cancer treatment? A narrative review of the literature.Carneiro MM(1)(2)(3), Cota AM(1), Amaral MC(1), Pedrosa ML(1), Martins BO(1),Furtado MH(1), Lamaita RM(1)(2), Ferreira MCF(1)(2).Author information: (1)Centro de Reprodução Humana Hospital MATER DEI, Belo Horizonte-MG.(2)Departamento de Ginecologia e Obstetrícia e Obstetrícia da Faculdade deMedicina da UFMG.(3)Equipe Multidisciplinar de Endometriose Biocor Hospital, Belo Horizonte-MG.Breast cancer may affect young women who have not yet completed childbearing.Assisted reproductive technology (ART) provides alternatives for fertilitypreservation such as oocyte, embryo or ovarian tissue cryopreservation. Wereviewed the published literature on fertility-preserving management in breastcancer, aiming at finding evidence to answer the following questions: (1) Whatare the fertility sparing options available?; (2) How do these women respond toIVF? and (3) Can pregnancy influence breast cancer recurrence? There is a paucityof publications describing clinical experience and outcome data which limitsaccessibility to fertility preservation in this setting. Presently, oocyte orembryo cryopreservation are the main options for fertility preservation. IVFsuccess rates are comparable to the ones of non-oncological populations accordingto the woman's age but current published studies lack data on definitive success rates following embryo banking for cancer patients. The perception that IVF andpregnancy may worsen cancer prognosis remains, despite the lack of scientificevidence to support this notion. Published studies show reassuring results forpregnancies occurring >2 years after breast cancer diagnosis. The best published evidence suggests pregnancy after breast cancer does not increase the risk ofdisease recurrence, thus pregnancy should not be forbidden once treatment iscompleted. Decision making for women diagnosed with cancer requires up-to-dateknowledge of the efficacy and safety of available options. Providing consultationwith a reproductive specialist and appropriate information on fertilitypreservation for these women should be an essential aspect of their supportivecare.DOI: 10.5935/1518-0557.20180032 PMID: 29932615 