50. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2018 Sep 15;122:42-50. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2018.06.019. Epub2018 Jun 19.Multivalent targeting and killing of HER2 overexpressing breast carcinoma cellswith methotrexate-encapsulated tetra-specific non-overlapping variable domainheavy chain anti-HER2 antibody-PEG-liposomes: In vitro proof-of-concept.Khoshtinat Nikkhoi S(1), Rahbarizadeh F(2), Ahmadvand D(3), Moghimi SM(4).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, TarbiatModares University, Tehran, Iran.(2)Department of Medical Biotechnology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, TarbiatModares University, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address: rahbarif@modares.ac.ir.(3)School of Allied Medical Sciences, Iran University of Medical Sciences,Tehran, Iran.(4)Center of Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology and Nanotoxicology, Department ofPharmaceutics and Analytical Chemistry, University of Copenhagen,Universitetsparken 2, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø, Denmark; School of Pharmacy, TheFaculty of Medical Sciences, King George VI Building, Newcastle University,Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 7RU, UK; Division of Stratified Medicine, Biomarkers &Therapeutics, Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, FramlingtonPlace, Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. Electronic address:seyed.moghimi@ncl.ac.uk.The variable domain of the heavy chain antibodies (VHHs) is the smallest (15 kDa)intact single domain antigen-binding fragment. VHHs often exhibit sub-nanomolaraffinity for their designated targets and therefore are receiving increasingattention in molecular targeting and nanomedicine engineering. We cloned andexpressed four non-overlapping anti-HER2 VHHs in a prokaryotic expression system that yielded disulfide-bonded VHHs. Purified VHHs, before and after thiolation,were characterized by Western blot and their functionality against theecto-domain of HER2 receptor was confirmed by ELISA and flow cytometry. ThiolatedVHHs were conjugated to the reactivemaleimide-PEG2000-distearoylphosphatidylethanolamine incorporated into thebilayer of small unilamellar vesicles. We show high target-binding avidity andefficient cytotoxicity of optimized tetra-specific multivalentmethatoraxate-loaded VHH-PEG-liposomes (55-60 VHH/vesicle) in HER2over-expressing breast carcinoma cell lines compared with the best performingmonoclonal VHH conjugated vesicles of identical VHH surface density. The VHHexpression and production methodology as well as the synergistic effect of thefour non-overlapping VHHs in HER2 binding provides an efficient approach fordesign and engineering of anti-cancer nanomedicines and their future applicationswithin the context of personalized and precision therapies and diagnostics arediscussed.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2018.06.019 PMID: 29933078 