Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.95. Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 21. pii: canres.3696.2017. doi:10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-17-3696. [Epub ahead of print]Interplay between ShcA signaling and PGC-1α triggers targetable metabolicvulnerabilities in breast cancer.Im YK(1), Najyb O(2), Gravel SP(3), McGuirk S(4), Ahn R(1), Avizonis D(5),Chénard V(4), Sabourin V(1), Hudson J(1), Pawson T(6), Topisirovic I(7), PollakMN(8), St-Pierre J(9), Ursini-Siegel J(10).Author information: (1)Oncology, Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research.(2)McGill University.(3)Faculty of pharmacy, University of Montreal.(4)Biochemistry, McGill University.(5)Rosalind and Morris Goodman Cancer Research Centre, McGill University.(6)Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University ofToronto.(7)Department of Oncology, Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, McGillUniversity.(8)Experimental Medicine and Oncology, McGill University.(9)University of Ottawa.(10)Oncology, Lady Davis Institute for Medical Researchgiuseppina.ursini-siegel@mcgill.ca.The ShcA adaptor protein transduces oncogenic signals downstream of receptortyrosine kinases. We show here that breast tumors engage the ShcA pathway toincrease their metabolism. ShcA signaling enhanced glucose catabolism throughglycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation, rendering breast cancer cellscritically dependent on glucose. ShcA signaling simultaneously increased themetabolic rate and flexibility of breast cancer cells by inducing the PGC-1αtranscription factor, a central regulator of mitochondrial metabolism. Breasttumors that engaged ShcA signaling were critically dependent on PGC-1α to supporttheir increased metabolic rate. PGC-1α deletion drastically delayed breast tumor onset in an orthotopic mouse model, highlighting a key role for PGC-1α in tumorinitiation. Conversely, reduced ShcA signaling impaired both the metabolic rateand flexibility of breast cancer cells, rendering them reliant on mitochondrialoxidative phosphorylation. This metabolic reprogramming exposed a targetablemetabolic vulnerability, leading to a sensitization of breast tumors toinhibitors of mitochondrial complex I (biguanides). Genetic inhibition of ShcAsignaling in the Polyoma virus middle T (MT) breast cancer mouse model sensitizedmammary tumors to biguanides during the earliest stages of breast cancerprogression. Tumor initiation and growth were selectively and severely impairedin MT/ShcA-deficient animals. These data demonstrate that metabolic reprogrammingis a key component of ShcA signaling and serves an unappreciated yet vital roleduring breast cancer initiation and progression. These data further unravel anovel interplay between ShcA and PGC-1α in the coordination of metabolicreprogramming and demonstrate the sensitivity of breast tumors to drugs targetingoxidative phosphorylation.Copyright ©2018, American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-17-3696 PMID: 29930100 