33. Mol Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 22. pii: molcanres.0151.2018. doi:10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-18-0151. [Epub ahead of print]Autocrine Fibronectin Inhibits Breast Cancer Metastasis.Shinde A(1), Libring S(2), Alpsoy A(1), Abdullah A(1), Schaber JA(3), SolorioL(4), Wendt MK(5).Author information: (1)Purdue University Center for Cancer Research, Department of MedicinalChemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Purdue University.(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University.(3)Bindley Bioscience Center, Purdue University, Purdue University.(4)Purdue University Center for Cancer Research, Department of BiomedicalEngineering, Purdue University.(5)Purdue University Center for Cancer Research, Department of MedicinalChemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Purdue University mwendt@purdue.edu.Both epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and mesenchymal-epithelialtransition (MET) are linked to metastasis via their ability to increaseinvasiveness and enhance tumor-initiating capacity. Growth factors, cytokines andchemotherapies present in the tumor microenvironment (TME) are capable ofinducing EMT, but the role of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in this processremains poorly understood. Here, a novel tessellated three-dimensional (3D)polymer scaffolding is used to produce a fibrillar fibronectin matrix thatinduces a EMT-like event that includes phosphorylation of STAT3 and requiresexpression of β1 integrin. Consistent with these findings, analysis of theMETABRIC dataset strongly links high-level fibronectin (FN) expression todecreased patient survival. In contrast, in vitro analysis of the MCF-10Aprogression series indicated that intracellular FN expression was associated withnon-metastatic cells. Therefore, differential bioluminescent imaging was used to track the metastasis of isogenic epithelial and mesenchymal cells withinheterogeneous tumors. Interestingly, mesenchymal tumor cells do not produce a FN matrix and cannot complete the metastatic process, even when grown within a tumorcontaining epithelial cells. However, mesenchymal tumor cells form FN containing cellular fibrils capable of supporting the growth and migration ofmetastatic-competent tumor cells. Importantly, depletion of FN allows mesenchymaltumor cells to regain epithelial characteristics and initiate in vivo tumorgrowth within a metastatic microenvironment.IMPLICATIONS: In contrast to thetumor promoting functions of fibronectin within the ECM, these data suggest that autocrine fibronectin production inhibits the metastatic potential of mesenchymaltumor cells.Copyright ©2018, American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-18-0151 PMID: 29934326 