123. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Jun 25:JCO2018792713. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.79.2713. [Epubahead of print]Recommendations on Disease Management for Patients With Advanced Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2-Positive Breast Cancer and Brain Metastases: ASCOClinical Practice Guideline Update.Ramakrishna N(1), Temin S(1), Chandarlapaty S(1), Crews JR(1), Davidson NE(1),Esteva FJ(1), Giordano SH(1), Kirshner JJ(1), Krop IE(1), Levinson J(1), ModiS(1), Patt DA(1), Perlmutter J(1), Winer EP(1), Lin NU(1).Author information: (1)Naren Ramakrishna, University of Florida Health Cancer Center at OrlandoHealth, Orlando; Jennifer Levinson, Ponte Vedra Beach, FL; Sarah Temin, American Society of Clinical Oncology, Alexandria, VA; Sarat Chandarlapaty and Shanu Modi,Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; Francisco J. Esteva, New York University Langone Medical Center, New York; Jeffrey J. Kirshner, Hematology/OncologyAssociates of Central New York, East Syracuse, NY; Jennie R. Crews, SeattleCancer Care Alliance, Seattle, WA; Nancy E. Davidson, Fred Hutchinson CancerResearch Center and University of Washington, Seattle, WA; Sharon H. Giordano,University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston; Debra A. Patt, TexasOncology, Austin, TX; Ian E. Krop, Eric P. Winer, and Nancy U. Lin, Dana-FarberCancer Institute, Boston, MA; and Jane Perlmutter, Ann Arbor, MI.Purpose To update the formal expert consensus-based guideline recommendations forpracticing oncologists and others on the management of brain metastases forpatients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive advanced breastcancer to 2018. Methods An Expert Panel conducted a targeted systematicliterature review (for both systemic treatment and CNS metastases) and identified622 articles. Outcomes of interest included overall survival, progression-freesurvival, and adverse events. In 2014, the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) convened a panel of medical oncology, radiation oncology, guidelineimplementation, and advocacy experts, and conducted a systematic review of theliterature. When that failed to yield sufficiently strong quality evidence, theExpert Panel undertook a formal expert consensus-based process to produce theserecommendations. ASCO used a modified Delphi process. The panel members draftedrecommendations, and a group of other experts joined them for two rounds offormal ratings of the recommendations. Results Of the 622 publications identifiedand reviewed, no additional evidence was identified that would warrant a changeto the 2014 recommendations. Recommendations Patients with brain metastasesshould receive appropriate local therapy and systemic therapy, if indicated.Local therapies include surgery, whole-brain radiotherapy, and stereotacticradiosurgery. Treatments depend on factors such as patient prognosis, presence ofsymptoms, resectability, number and size of metastases, prior therapy, andwhether metastases are diffuse. Other options include systemic therapy, bestsupportive care, enrollment in a clinical trial, and/or palliative care.Clinicians should not perform routine magnetic resonance imaging to screen forbrain metastases, but rather should have a low threshold for magnetic resonanceimaging of the brain because of the high incidence of brain metastases amongpatients with HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. Additional information isavailable at www.asco.org/breast-cancer-guidelines .DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.79.2713 PMID: 29939840 