174. Ann Agric Environ Med. 2018 Jun 20;25(2):314-319. doi: 10.26444/aaem/82622. Epub 2018 Feb 21.Satisfaction with life among women with breast cancer - selected demographic and social factors.Cipora E(1), Konieczny M(2), Karwat ID(3), Roczniak W(4), Babuśka-Roczniak M(5).Author information: (1)Jan Grodek State Higher Vocational School, Sanok, Poland.elacipora@interia.pl.(2)Jan Grodek State Higher Vocational School, Sanok, Poland.magdalenakonieczny@wp.pl.(3)Jan Grodek State Higher Vocational School, Sanok, Poland. irbisiza10@wp.pl.(4)Jan Grodek State Higher Vocational School, Sanok, Poland.wojciech_roczniak@interia.pl.(5)Jan Grodek State Higher Vocational School, Sanok, Poland. magda.babuska@vp.pl.OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was evaluation of satisfaction with life amongwomen ill with breast cancer, with consideration of selected demographic andsocial factors.MATERIAL AND METHODS: In the study participated 121 patients from theSub-Carpathian Oncology Centre in Brzozów, Poland, who had undergone surgicaltreatment due to breast cancer. The method of a diagnostic survey was used. Theresearch instruments were an author-constructed questionnaire and theSatisfaction with Life Scale.RESULTS: Women who received surgical treatment due to breast cancer evaluatedtheir satisfaction with life on a mediocre level. Younger patients had a lowersatisfaction with life than those who were older. Women living in urban areasevaluated their satisfaction with life in more positive terms than rural women.In turn, education level, marital status and material standard had no effect onthe level of satisfaction with life among the women in the study.CONCLUSIONS: According to the SWLS, women with the diagnosis of breast cancerobtained a mean result of 5.64 sten scores Younger women evaluated theirsatisfaction with life in more positive terms than those who were older. Womenwho lived in urban areas obtained a considerably higher result according to theSWLS, compared to rural inhabitants. Marital status, education level, materialstandard and occupational activity of the women were insignificant in therespondents' evaluation of satisfaction with life.DOI: 10.26444/aaem/82622 PMID: 29936805  [Indexed for MEDLINE]