85. Int J Ment Health Syst. 2018 Jun 7;12:31. doi: 10.1186/s13033-018-0207-1.eCollection 2018.Chronic mass psychogenic illness among women in Derashe Woreda, Segen Area PeopleZone, southern Ethiopia: a community based cross-sectional study.Ayehu M(1), Endriyas M(2), Mekonnen E(2), Shiferaw M(2), Misganaw T(2).Author information: (1)1College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Hawassa University, Hawassa,Ethiopia.(2)2SNNPR Health Bureau, Hawassa, Ethiopia.Background: Outbreaks of mass psychogenic illness (MPI), which are aconstellation of physical signs and symptoms suggestive of organic illness withno identifiable causes. MPI has been documented in numerous cultural, ethnic, andreligious groups throughout the world. The aims of this study were to documentthe nature and impacts of the illness, to assess interventions, and to come upwith recommendations and management formulations for dealing with such kinds ofoutbreaks in the future.Methods: Community based cross-sectional study was conducted in June, 2015 inDerashe Woreda, Segen Area People Zone of the Southern Nations Nationalities and People's Region. Women with complaints of breast cancer but with no objectivefindings were the subjects of the study. Ninety-seven women were investigatedusing a semi-structured questionnaire for quantitative study. Two focus groupdiscussions with seven affected and seven non-affected women and four keyinformant interviews were conducted using guiding questionnaires. Quantitativedata was analyzed using SPSS version 20 software packages while qualitative data was analyzed manually going through thematic areas.Result: The ages of the ninety-seven study participants ranged from 17 to56 years, with a mean (SD) of 32.8 (8.7) years. Onset of illness was dated backto the year 2012 following the death of a 43 year old socially active woman with complications of breast cancer. Following her death many women started to report multiple vague physical complaints similar to those of the deceased woman. Eventhough the responses from the study participants did not specifically point to a single possible cause and means of transmission, high numbers of women believedthe source of their illness could be punishment from God while some said that thecause of their suffering could be environmental pollution. Since the illness was taken to be contagious, affected women faced stigma and discrimination. Moreover,school activities and social gatherings were limited significantly.Conclusion: Unrealistic and exaggerated rumors and inadequate explanations about the nature and spread of the illness were the main contributing factors for thespread and prolongation of the outbreak. An organized intervention, clear andadequate explanations about the nature and transmission of the illness cancontain MPI within a short period of time.DOI: 10.1186/s13033-018-0207-1 PMCID: PMC5992694PMID: 29930699 