1. Surgeon. 2018 Jun 20. pii: S1479-666X(18)30072-6. doi:10.1016/j.surge.2018.05.004. [Epub ahead of print]Inequalities in health? An update on the effect of social deprivation forpatients with breast cancer in South East Wales.Boyce K(1), White C(2), Hunt P(3), Abel N(3), James Z(3), Micic T(3), GomezKF(3).Author information: (1)Oncoplastic Breast Surgery Unit, Nevill Hall Hospital, Abergavenny, UK.Electronic address: kathrynboyce1@gmail.com.(2)Welsh Cancer Intelligence & Surveillance Unit, Public Health Wales, Cardiff,UK.(3)Oncoplastic Breast Surgery Unit, Nevill Hall Hospital, Abergavenny, UK.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer, historically a disease of more affluent women, hasincreased in incidence for women from areas of greater social deprivation, yetprognosis is worse for these women. This study identifies differences inpresentation, treatment and prognostic factors between the socioeconomic groups.METHODS: Patient data obtained from the prospectively maintained Welsh nationalCancer Network Information System Cymru, for an 11-year period, were categorised according to Welsh Index of Multiple Deprivation quintiles. Quintiles werecompared for differences in variables relating to patient characteristics,detection of cancer, tumour biology and treatment.RESULTS: 1570 patients were included. Analysis showed that in the more sociallydeprived quintiles, there are proportionally fewer women being diagnosed through the NHS breast cancer screening programme and as a consequence greater numbers ofwomen from poorer areas being diagnosed outwith the screening age parameters.Screen detection is strongly associated with better prognosis in terms ofNottingham Prognostic Index. Similarly, increasing levels of social deprivationare associated with higher incidence of oestrogen receptor negative and triplenegative tumours, both features associated with a shorter disease free andoverall survival. Other variables of tumour biology, rates and type of surgicaland adjuvant treatment were similar across social deprivation quintiles.CONCLUSION: There is a trend of reduced early detection of breast cancer in SouthEast Wales in those patients living in areas of higher social deprivation. Given that there is equity in access to treatment within NHS, which is free forpatients at the point of care, further study is warranted to address thisexisting disparity. Population cancer surveillance will need to inform bothpublic health and NHS service responses, to continue to achieve improvements.Health trends may yet alter depending on current and future shifts ingovernmental health policy.Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.surge.2018.05.004 PMID: 29936016 