124. J Clin Oncol. 2018 Jun 25:JCO2018792697. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2018.79.2697. [Epubahead of print]Systemic Therapy for Patients With Advanced Human Epidermal Growth FactorReceptor 2-Positive Breast Cancer: ASCO Clinical Practice Guideline Update.Giordano SH(1), Temin S(1), Chandarlapaty S(1), Crews JR(1), Esteva FJ(1),Kirshner JJ(1), Krop IE(1), Levinson J(1), Lin NU(1), Modi S(1), Patt DA(1),Perlmutter J(1), Ramakrishna N(1), Winer EP(1), Davidson NE(1).Author information: (1)Sharon H. Giordano, The University of Texas MD Anderson, Houston; Debra A.Patt, Texas Oncology, Austin, TX; Sarah Temin, American Society of ClinicalOncology, Alexandria, VA; Sarat Chandarlapaty and Shanu Modi, Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center; Francisco J. Esteva, New York University Langone MedicalCenter, New York; Jeffrey J. Kirshner, Hematology/Oncology Associates of Central New York, East Syracuse, NY; Jennie R. Crews, Seattle Cancer Care Alliance; NancyE. Davidson, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and University of Washington,Seattle, WA; Ian E. Krop, Nancy U. Lin, and Eric P. Winer, Dana-Farber CancerInstitute, Boston, MA; Jennifer Levinson, Ponte Vedra Beach; Naren Ramakrishna,Orlando Health University of Florida Health Cancer Center, Orlando, FL; and Jane Perlmutter, Ann Arbor, MI.Purpose To update evidence-based guideline recommendations for practicingoncologists and others on systemic therapy for patients with human epidermalgrowth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive advanced breast cancer to 2018. Methods An Expert Panel conducted a targeted systematic literature review (for bothsystemic treatment and CNS metastases) and identified 622 articles. Outcomes ofinterest included overall survival, progression-free survival, and adverseevents. Results Of the 622 publications identified and reviewed, no additionalevidence was identified that would warrant a change to the 2014 recommendations. Recommendations HER2-targeted therapy is recommended for patients withHER2-positive advanced breast cancer, except for those with clinical congestiveheart failure or significantly compromised left ventricular ejection fraction,who should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Trastuzumab, pertuzumab, andtaxane for first-line treatment and trastuzumab emtansine for second-linetreatment are recommended. In the third-line setting, clinicians should offerother HER2-targeted therapy combinations or trastuzumab emtansine (if notpreviously administered) and may offer pertuzumab if the patient has notpreviously received it. Optimal duration of chemotherapy is at least 4 to 6months or until maximum response, depending on toxicity and in the absence ofprogression. HER2-targeted therapy can continue until time of progression orunacceptable toxicities. For patients with HER2-positive and estrogenreceptor-positive/progesterone receptor-positive breast cancer, clinicians mayrecommend either standard first-line therapy or, for selected patients, endocrinetherapy plus HER2-targeted therapy or endocrine therapy alone. Additionalinformation is available at www.asco.org/breast-cancer-guidelines .DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2018.79.2697 PMID: 29939838 