92. No Shinkei Geka. 2018 Jun;46(6):523-528. doi: 10.11477/mf.1436203762.[A Case of Primary Extradural Meningioma Located at the High Convexity:A CaseReport and Review of the Literature].[Article in Japanese]Sakakibara Y(1), Taguchi Y, Nakamura H, Onodera H, Wakui D, Ikeda T, Aida Y.Author information: (1)Division of Neurosurgery, St. Marianna University School of Medicine, YokohamaCity Seibu Hospital.OBJECTIVES: Primary meningiomas arising outside the intracranial component arerather rare and have been termed primary extradural meningiomas(PEMs). We presenta case of an intraosseous-type PEM occurring at a high convexity location anddiscuss the clinical characteristics of PEMs.CASE: An 80-year-old woman presented with a soft and painless subcutaneous massof approximately 10 cm in diameter in the right parietal region, which hadappeared 1 year previously. Mild cognitive dysfunction and left hemiparesis were observed upon admission. A skull radiograph and a bone window computed tomographyscan revealed an osteolytic lesion at the above-mentioned site. Magneticresonance imaging indicated that the mass was inhomogeneously enhanced and seemedto extend through the skull defect both intra- and extra-cranially. Thepreoperative diagnosis was a metastatic skull bone tumor due to the patient'shistory of breast cancer. During surgery, the tumor was found to be solid and hadexpanded through both the inner and outer tables of the skull, destroyed theinner table at one location, and perforated into the subdural space via thethinned, but not infiltrated, dura mater. The tumor was removed along with a widemargin of surrounding healthy bone and a cranioplasty was performed using atitanium plate. The histopathological diagnosis was atypical meningioma(WorldHealth Organization grade II). Postoperatively, no adjuvant therapies(radiationand/or chemotherapy)were administered and the patient was reported to be well at 8 months post-surgery with no evidence of tumor recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Although PEMs are rather rare, clinicians should consider thedifferential diagnosis of osteolytic skull vault tumors.DOI: 10.11477/mf.1436203762 PMID: 29930214 