63. Biomedicines. 2018 Jun 22;6(3). pii: E73. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines6030073.siRNAs Targeting Growth Factor Receptor and Anti-Apoptotic Genes Synergistically Kill Breast Cancer Cells through Inhibition of MAPK and PI-3 Kinase Pathways.Kamaruzman NI(1), Tiash S(2), Ashaie M(3), Chowdhury EH(4).Author information: (1)Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Wellington Rd & Blackburn Rd,Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. nurizyanikamaruzman@gmail.com.(2)Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Wellington Rd & Blackburn Rd,Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. snigdha.tiash@unimelb.edu.au.(3)Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Wellington Rd & Blackburn Rd,Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. maira.ashaie@gmail.com.(4)Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,Nursing and Health Sciences, Monash University, Wellington Rd & Blackburn Rd,Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. md.ezharul.hoque@monash.edu.Breast cancer, the second leading cause of female deaths worldwide, is usuallytreated with cytotoxic drugs, accompanied by adverse side-effects, development ofchemoresistance and relapse of disease condition. Survival and proliferation ofthe cancer cells are greatly empowered by over-expression or over-activation ofgrowth factor receptors and anti-apoptotic factors. Identification of these keyplayers that cross-talk to each other, and subsequently, knockdown with theirrespective siRNAs in a synchronous manner could be a promising approach toprecisely treat the cancer. Since siRNAs demonstrate limited cell permeabilityand unfavorable pharmacokinetic behaviors, pH-sensitive nanoparticles ofcarbonate apatite were employed to efficiently carry the siRNAs in vitro and invivo. By delivering selective siRNAs against the mRNA transcripts of the growthfactor receptors, such as ER, ERBB2 (HER2), EGFR and IGFR, and anti-apoptoticprotein, such as BCL2 in human (MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231) and murine (4T1) breastcancer cell lines, we found that ESR1 along with BCL-2, or with ERBB2 and EGFRcritically contributes to the growth/survival of the cancer cells by activatingthe MAPK and PI-3 kinase pathways. Furthermore, intravenous delivery of theselected siRNAs aiming to suppress the expression of ER/BCL2 and ER/ERBB2/EGFRgroups of proteins led to a significant retardation in tumor growth in a4T1-induced syngeneic mouse model.DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines6030073 PMID: 29932151 