Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare thatthey have no competing interests.82. Oncotarget. 2018 Jun 5;9(43):27133-27150. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25500.eCollection 2018 Jun 5.Global metabolite profiling analysis of lipotoxicity in HER2/neu-positive breast cancer cells.Baumann J(1), Kokabee M(1), Wong J(1), Balasubramaniyam R(1), Sun Y(1), ConklinDS(1).Author information: (1)Cancer Research Center, Department of Biomedical Sciences, State University ofNew York, University at Albany, Rensselaer, NY 12144, USA.Recent work has shown that HER2/neu-positive breast cancer cells rely on a uniqueWarburg-like metabolism for survival and aggressive behavior. These cells aredependent on fatty acid (FA) synthesis, show markedly increased levels of stored fats and disruption of the synthetic process results in apoptosis. In this study,we used global metabolite profiling and a multi-omics network analysis approachto model the metabolic changes in this physiology under palmitate-supplementedgrowth conditions to gain insights into the molecular mechanism and its relevanceto disease prevention and treatment. Computational analyses were used to definepathway enrichment based on the dataset of significantly altered metabolites and to integrate metabolomics and transcriptomics data in a multi-omics networkanalysis. Network-predicted changes and functional relationships were tested withcell assays in vitro. Palmitate-supplemented growth conditions induce distinctmetabolic alterations. Growth of HER2-normal MCF7 cells is unaffected under theseconditions whereas HER2/neu-positive cells display unchanged neutral lipidcontent, AMPK activation, inhibition of fatty acid synthesis and significantlyaltered glutamine, glucose and serine/glycine metabolism. The predominantupregulated lipid species is the novel bioactive lipid N-palmitoylglycine, which is non-toxic to these cells. Limiting the availability of glutamine significantlyameliorates the lipotoxic effects of palmitate, reduces CHOP and XBP1(s)induction and restores the expression levels of HER2 and HER3. The study showsthat HER2/neu-positive breast cancer cells change their metabolic phenotype inthe presence of palmitate. Palmitate induces AMPK activation and inhibition offatty acid synthesis that feeds back into glycolysis as well as anapleroticglutamine metabolism.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25500 PMCID: PMC6007458PMID: 29930756 