81. Oncotarget. 2018 Jun 5;9(43):27171-27196. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25506.eCollection 2018 Jun 5.Prognostic values of the mRNA expression of natural killer receptor ligands andtheir association with clinicopathological features in breast cancer patients.Abouelghar A(1), Hasnah R(2), Taouk G(1), Saad M(3), Karam M(1).Author information: (1)Cancer Research Center, Qatar Biomedical Research Institute, Hamad Bin KhalifaUniversity, Qatar Foundation, Doha, Qatar.(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar, Doha, Qatar.(3)Qatar Computing Research Institute, Hamad Bin Khalifa University, Doha, Qatar.Background: Natural killer (NK) cells are lymphocytes of the innate immune systemthat have potent cytotoxic activity against tumor cells. NK cell recognition and activity towards cancer cells are regulated by an integrated interplay betweennumerous inhibitory and activating receptors acting in concert to eliminate tumorcells expressing cognate ligands. Despite strong evidence supporting the role of NK cells in breast cancer (BC) control, BC still develops and progresses to form large tumors and metastases. A major mechanism of BC escape from NK immunity isthe alteration of the expression of NK receptor ligands. The aim of this studywas to determine whether NK receptor ligands' mRNA expression might influenceprognosis in BC patients and whether these effects differ by molecular subtypesand clinicopathological features.Methods: We used the KM plotter platform to analyze the correlation between mRNA expression of 32 NK receptor ligands and relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) in 3951 and 1402 BC patients, respectively. The association withtumor subtypes and clinicopathological features was determined. BC samples weresplit into high and low expression groups according to the best cutoff value and the two patient cohorts were compared by Kaplan-Meier survival plots. The hazard ratios with 95% confidence intervals and log rank P values were calculated andFDR-adjusted for multiple testing correction. The data was considered to bestatistically significant when FDR-adjusted P value < 0.05.Results: High mRNA expression of around 80% of ligands for NK activating andinhibitory receptors associated with better RFS, which correlated with longer OS for only about half of the NK-activating ligands but for most NK-inhibitoryligands. Also, five NK-activating ligands correlated with worse prognosis. These prognostic values were differentially associated with the BC clinical criteria.In addition, the favorable prognostic influence of NK-activating ligands'upregulation, as a whole, was mainly significantly associated with HER2-positive and basal-like subtypes, lymph node positive phenotype, and high-grade tumors.Conclusions: NK receptor ligands appear to play an important role in defining BC patient prognosis. Identification of a group of patients with worse prognosisexpressing high levels of NK-activating ligands and low levels of NK-inhibitoryligands makes them ideal potential candidates for NK-based immunotherapy toeliminate residual tumor cells, prevent relapse and improve patient survival.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25506 PMCID: PMC6007477PMID: 29930758 