Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interestmay be found at the end of this article.30. Oncologist. 2018 Jun 22. pii: theoncologist.2017-0570. doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0570. [Epub ahead of print]Cognitive Changes After Adjuvant Treatment in Older Adults with Early-StageBreast Cancer.Lange M(1)(2)(3), Heutte N(2)(3), Noal S(4), Rigal O(3)(5)(6), Kurtz JE(7), Lévy C(4), Allouache D(4), Rieux C(2), Lefel J(5), Clarisse B(2), Leconte A(2), VeyretC(6), Barthélémy P(7), Longato N(7), Tron L(1)(3)(8), Castel H(9), EustacheF(10), Giffard B(3)(10), Joly F(11)(2)(3)(12).Author information: (1)INSERM, U1086, ANTICIPE, Caen, France.(2)Clinical Research Department, Caen, France.(3)Cancer & Cognition, Platform, Ligue Contre le Cancer, CHU de Caen, Caen,France.(4)Breast Committee Department, Centre François Baclesse, Caen, France.(5)Departments of Care SupportCentre Henri-Becquerel, Rouen, France.(6)Medical Oncology, Centre Henri-Becquerel, Rouen, France.(7)Oncology-Hematology Department, Hôpitaux universitaires de Strasbourg,Strasbourg, France.(8)kCHU de Caen, Caen, France.(9)INSERM U982, Laboratory of Neuronal and Neuroendocrine Differentiation andCommunication, Rouen University, Mont-Saint-Aignan, France.(10)Normandie University, UNICAEN, PSL Research University, EPHE, INSERM, U1077, CHU de Caen, Neuropsychologie et Imagerie de la Mémoire Humaine Department, Caen,France.(11)INSERM, U1086, ANTICIPE, Caen, France f.joly@baclesse.fr.(12)Medical Oncology Department, CHU de Caen, Caen, France.BACKGROUND: Group-based trajectory modeling is particularly important to identifysubgroups of patients with pathological cognitive changes after cancer treatment.To date, only one study has explored cognitive trajectories in older patientswith cancer. The present article describes objective cognitive changes before to after adjuvant treatment in older adults with early-stage breast cancer (EBC)after adjuvant treatment compared with healthy controls.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Participants were patients ≥65 years of age with newlydiagnosed EBC and healthy controls (age-, sex-, and education-matched). Thepretreatment assessment was conducted before adjuvant therapy, and thepost-treatment assessment after the end of the first adjuvant treatment.Objective cognitive changes before to after treatment were evaluated based on theReliable Change Index for cognitive decline accounting for cognitive impairmentstatus.RESULTS: The sample consisted of women newly diagnosed with EBC (n = 118) andhealthy controls (n = 62). Five patterns of changes before to after treatmentwere identified based on the presence of cognitive decline and cognitiveimpairment. The distribution of these five change patterns was statisticallysignificant (p = .0001). Thirty-six percent of patients had phase shift changes, 31% without initial objective cognitive impairment developed impairment, 15% had a normal aging, 12% had a nonpathological decline, and 6% experienced acceleratedcognitive decline.CONCLUSION: This study described for the first time objective cognitive changesbefore to after treatment of older adults with EBC immediately after the end ofadjuvant treatment. A longer-term remote follow-up of adjuvant treatment isneeded to better understand the cognitive trajectories of older patients withEBC. The Oncologist IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: After the end of adjuvanttreatment, 31% of older adults with early-stage breast cancer without initialobjective cognitive impairment developed impairment, and 6% experiencedaccelerated cognitive decline. Initial cognitive functioning should be includedin the balance of benefits and harms of systemic therapy for patients who arelikely to be at highest risk for cognitive decline after cancer treatments.Regular cognitive follow-up of patients who had cognitive impairment beforecancer treatment should monitor symptoms suggestive of neurodegenerative disease and avert the effect of cognitive disorders on patients' autonomy.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0570 PMID: 29934409 