59. Reg Anesth Pain Med. 2018 Jul;43(5):480-487. doi: 10.1097/AAP.0000000000000768.Too Deep or Not Too Deep?: A Propensity-Matched Comparison of the AnalgesicEffects of a Superficial Versus Deep Serratus Fascial Plane Block for Ambulatory Breast Cancer Surgery.Abdallah FW, Cil T, MacLean D, Madjdpour C(1), Escallon J, Semple J, Brull R(2).Author information: (1)Anaesthetics Department, Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, NorthTyneside General Hospital, North Shields, United Kingdom.(2)Department of Anesthesia, Women's College Hospital, University of Toronto,Toronto, Ontario, Canada.BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Serratus fascial plane block can reduce pain followingbreast surgery, but the question of whether to inject the local anestheticsuperficial or deep to the serratus muscle has not been answered. This cohortstudy compares the analgesic benefits of superficial versus deep serratus planeblocks in ambulatory breast cancer surgery patients at Women's College Hospitalbetween February 2014 and December 2016. We tested the joint hypothesis that deepserratus block is noninferior to superficial serratus block for postoperativein-hospital (pre-discharge) opioid consumption and pain severity.METHODS: One hundred sixty-six patients were propensity matched among 2 groups(83/group): superficial and deep serratus blocks. The cohort was used to evaluatethe effect of blocks on postoperative oral morphine equivalent consumption andarea under the curve for rest pain scores. We considered deep serratus block tobe noninferior to superficial serratus block if it were noninferior for bothoutcomes, within 15 mg morphine and 4 cm·h units margins. Other outcomes includedintraoperative fentanyl requirements, time to first analgesic request, recoveryroom stay, and incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting.RESULTS: Deep serratus block was associated with postoperative morphineconsumption and pain scores area under the curve that were noninferior to thoseof the superficial serratus block. Intraoperative fentanyl requirements, time to first analgesic request, recovery room stay, and postoperative nausea andvomiting were not different between blocks.CONCLUSIONS: The postoperative in-hospital analgesia associated with deepserratus block is as effective (within an acceptable margin) as superficialserratus block following ambulatory breast cancer surgery. These new findings areimportant to inform both current clinical practices and future prospectivestudies.DOI: 10.1097/AAP.0000000000000768 PMID: 29932431 