125. Med Phys. 2018 Jun 25. doi: 10.1002/mp.13062. [Epub ahead of print]Zinc oxide nanoparticles as contrast-enhancing agents for microwave imaging.Lahri R(1), Rahman M(1), Wright M(1), Kosmas P(2), Thanou M(1).Author information: (1)Faculty of Life Sciences & Medicine, King's College London, London, SE1 9NH,UK.(2)Faculty of Natural & Mathematical Sciences, King's College London, London,WC2R 2LS, UK.PURPOSE: Microwave imaging/sensing is an emerging technology that shows potentialfor healthcare diagnostic applications, particularly in breast cancer detection. This technique estimates the anatomically variant dielectric properties of thebreast. Similar to other imaging modalities, nanoparticles (NPs) couldpotentially be utilized as contrast agents to increase contrast between healthyand malignant tissues.METHODS: In this study, aqueous suspensions of NPs such as surface-modifiedsingle-walled carbon nanotubes, zinc oxide, and silicon dioxide are studied toassess their potential effective contrast for microwave imaging. Morphologycharacterization of the NPs has been achieved using atomic force microscopy (AFM)and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The size and stability of colloidaldispersions have been characterized by dynamic light scattering technique (DLS)and Ultraviolet-visible spectrophotometry (UV-Vis). The dielectriccharacterization of the aqueous-based colloidal suspensions is recorded over the microwave frequency range between 1 and 4 GHz.RESULTS: Zinc oxide NP dispersion has shown an increase in the dielectricconstant compared to the background medium. Furthermore, PEGylation of ZnO NPscan achieve a valid increase in the dielectric constant compared to water, which was shown to be concentration dependent.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that ZnO nanomaterials have the potential to beused in biomedical applications such as breast imaging to improve diagnosticcapabilities.© 2018 American Association of Physicists in Medicine.DOI: 10.1002/mp.13062 PMID: 29939399 