128. Biostatistics. 2018 Jun 24. doi: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxy023. [Epub ahead ofprint]Temporally dependent accelerated failure time model for capturing the impact ofevents that alter survival in disease mapping.Carroll R(1), Lawson AB(2), Zhao S(1).Author information: (1)Biostatistics and Computational Biology Branch, National Institute ofEnvironmental Health Sciences, 111 TW Alexander Dr., Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.(2)Department of Public Health Sciences, Medical University of South Carolina,135 Cannon St., Charleston, SC, USA.The introduction of spatial and temporal frailty parameters in survival modelsfurnishes a way to represent unmeasured confounding in the outcome of interest.Using a Bayesian accelerated failure time model, we are able to flexibly explore a wide range of spatial and temporal options for structuring frailties as well asexamine the benefits of using these different structures in certain settings. Asetting of particular interest for this work involved using temporal frailties tocapture the impact of events of interest on breast cancer survival. Our resultssuggest that it is important to include these temporal frailties when there is a true temporal structure to the outcome and including them when a true temporalstructure is absent does not sacrifice model fit. Additionally, the frailties areable to correctly recover the truth imposed on simulated data without affectingthe fixed effect estimates. In the case study involving Louisiana breastcancer-specific mortality, the temporal frailty played an important role inrepresenting the unmeasured confounding related to improvements in knowledge,education, and disease screenings as well as the impacts of Hurricane Katrina andthe passing of the Affordable Care Act. In conclusion, the incorporation oftemporal, in addition to spatial, frailties in survival analysis can lead tobetter fitting models and improved inference by representing both spatially andtemporally varying unmeasured risk factors and confounding that could impactsurvival. Specifically, we successfully estimated changes in survival around the time of events of interest.DOI: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxy023 PMID: 29939209 