69. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2018 Jun 21;19(8):38. doi: 10.1007/s11864-018-0555-8.Extranodal Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma: Molecular Features, Prognosis, and Riskof Central Nervous System Recurrence.Ollila TA(1)(2), Olszewski AJ(3)(4).Author information: (1)Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Rhode Island Hospital, 593 EddySt., Providence, RI, 02903, USA.(2)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.(3)Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Rhode Island Hospital, 593 EddySt., Providence, RI, 02903, USA. adam_olszewski@brown.edu.(4)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.adam_olszewski@brown.edu.OPINION STATEMENT: Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) arises from extranodalorgans in about 30% of cases. Its prognosis and risk of recurrence in the centralnervous system (CNS) vary according to the primary site of origin. Recent studiesbegin to clarify these differences using molecular classification. Testicular,breast, and uterine DLBCL (as well as possibly primary cutaneous DLBCL, leg-type)share a high prevalence of the non-germinal center B cell (non-GCB) phenotype andthe MYD88/CD79B-mutated (MCD) genotype. These biologic features, which resembleprimary CNS lymphoma, may underlie their stage-independent propensity for CNSinvolvement. Management of these lymphomas should involve CNS prophylaxis,preferably using systemic high-dose methotrexate to prevent intraparenchymalrecurrence. Involvement of the kidneys, adrenal glands, ovary, bone marrow, lung,or pleura usually indicates disseminated disease, conferring worse prognosis.Involvement of these sites is often associated with high CNS-InternationalPrognostic Index (IPI), concurrent MYC and BCL2 or BCL6 rearrangements, orintravascular lymphoma-risk factors warranting CNS prophylaxis. In contrast,craniofacial, thyroid, localized bone, or gastric lymphomas have a variableprevalence of the non-GCB phenotype and lack MYD88 mutations. Their outcomes withstandard immunochemotherapy are excellent, and the risk of CNS recurrence is low.We recommend individualized consideration of CNS prophylaxis based on the CNS-IPIscore and anatomical proximity in cases of epidural, orbital, or skullinvolvement. Rituximab-containing immunochemotherapy is a standard approach forall extranodal DLBCLs. Surgery is no longer required for any primary site, butroutine consolidative radiation therapy is recommended for testicular lymphoma.Radiation therapy also appears to be associated with better progression-freesurvival in primary bone DLBCL. Future studies should better distinguish primary from secondary sites of extranodal involvement, and investigate the associationof newly identified genotypes with the risk of CNS or systemic recurrence.DOI: 10.1007/s11864-018-0555-8 PMID: 29931605 