53. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2018 Jun 22. doi: 10.5858/arpa.2017-0377-OA. [Epub ahead of print]Short-Duration Rapid Chilling of Mastectomy Specimens Does Not Interfere WithBreast Cancer Biomarker and Molecular Testing.Kumarapeli AR, Bellamy W, Olgaard E, Massoll N, Korourian S(1).Author information: (1)From the Department of Pathology, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences,Little Rock.CONTEXT: - A thorough gross examination of specimens for breast cancer requiresthe tissue to be very thinly sectioned, which is often difficult in largemastectomy samples. We have implemented rapid chilling of mastectomy specimensbefore formalin fixation.OBJECTIVE: - To evaluate the effects of rapid chilling of breast tissue onsubsequent biomarker and molecular testing.DESIGN: - Mastectomy specimens were chilled at -80°C for 20 minutes to facilitateuniform sectioning of tissue at 4-mm intervals and enhance proper fixation andidentification of small lesions. The integrity of chilled tissue for ancillaryand molecular testing was assessed. We identified patients who were diagnosedwith breast cancer on biopsy at outside institutions and subsequently underwentmastectomy at our institution during 2010-2014. We compared the results ofbiomarker testing performed on biopsy tissue with those performed on mastectomytissue. The quantity and quality of DNA extracted from formalin-fixed andparaffin-embedded (FFPE) mastectomy tissue with invasive carcinoma were assessed by using spectrophotometry and polymerase chain reaction. All Oncotype DX reportsfrom 2011-2014 were reviewed to identify any documented evidence of assayinterference caused by rapid chilling of tissue.RESULTS: - We found essentially 100% concordances in estrogen receptor,progesterone receptor, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 gene ERBB2(HER2/neu) studies. Extracted tumor DNA showed suitable purity and concentration that produced amplified fragments of 300 to 400 base pair lengths by polymerasechain reaction of FFPE tissue. No documented assay interferences were found inthe Oncotype DX reports.CONCLUSIONS: - Short-duration rapid chilling of mastectomy tissue improves gross examination, optimally preserves DNA, allows for molecular testing, and does not interfere with biomarker assessment.DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2017-0377-OA PMID: 29932859 