90. Sci Rep. 2018 Jun 21;8(1):9474. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-27718-1.Immune interconnectivity of anatomically distant tumors as a potential mediatorof systemic responses to local therapy.Walker R(1), Poleszczuk J(2), Pilon-Thomas S(3), Kim S(4), Anderson AARA(1),Czerniecki BJ(5), Harrison LB(4), Moros EG(4), Enderling H(6)(7).Author information: (1)Department of Integrated Mathematical Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Centerand Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.(2)Nalecz Institute of Biocybernetics and Biomedical Engineering, Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw, Poland.(3)Department of Immunology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute,Tampa, FL, USA.(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and ResearchInstitute, Tampa, FL, USA.(5)Department of Breast Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and ResearchInstitute, Tampa, FL, USA.(6)Department of Integrated Mathematical Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Centerand Research Institute, Tampa, FL, USA. Heiko.Enderling@moffitt.org.(7)Department of Radiation Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and ResearchInstitute, Tampa, FL, USA. Heiko.Enderling@moffitt.org.Complex interactions occur between tumor and host immune system at each site inthe metastatic setting, the outcome of which can determine behavior ranging from dormancy to rapid growth. An additional layer of complexity arises from theunderstanding that cytotoxic T cells can traffic through the host circulatorysystem. Coupling mathematical models of local tumor-immune dynamics and systemic T cell trafficking allows us to simulate the evolution of tumor and immune cellpopulations in anatomically distant sites following local therapy and thuscomputationally evaluate immune interconnectivity. Results suggest that thepresence of a secondary site may either inhibit or promote growth of the primary,depending on the capacity for immune recruitment of each tumor and the resulting systemic redistribution of T cells. Treatment such as surgical resection andradiotherapy can be simulated to estimate both the decrease in tumor volume atthe local treatment-targeted site, and the change in overall tumor burden andtumor growth trajectories across all sites. Qualitatively similar responses ofdistant tumors to local therapy (positive and negative abscopal effects) to thosereported in the clinical setting were observed. Such findings may facilitate animproved understanding of general disease kinetics in the metastatic setting: if metastatic sites are interconnected through the immune system, truly localtherapy does not exist.DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-27718-1 PMCID: PMC6013469PMID: 29930290 