29. Oncologist. 2018 Jun 22. pii: theoncologist.2018-0077. doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0077. [Epub ahead of print]Endocrine Therapy in Premenopausal Hormone Receptor Positive/Human EpidermalGrowth Receptor 2 Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer: Between Guidelines andLiterature.Tancredi R(1)(2), Furlanetto J(2), Loibl S(3).Author information: (1)Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico, San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.(2)GBG Forschungs GmbH, Neu-Isenburg, Germany.(3)GBG Forschungs GmbH, Neu-Isenburg, Germany sibylle.loibl@gbg.de.There is growing interest in the endocrine treatment (ET) of premenopausal women with hormone receptor positive (HR+) metastatic breast cancer (MBC). This review summarizes available data on endocrine therapy for this patient subset and aimsto define the most appropriate treatment approach. The combination of luteinizinghormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonists plus tamoxifen seems effective and safeand is considered as being superior to either approach alone; still, single-agenttherapy remains an acceptable treatment option. Due to their mechanism of action,aromatase inhibitors alone are not suitable for the treatment of premenopausalpatients, but the combination with LHRH agonists may result in excellent disease control. Fulvestrant, in conjunction with LHRH agonists, also yields interesting results regarding clinical benefit rate and time to progression; currently, otherorally available selective estrogen receptor downregulators are under clinicalevaluation. Recently, targeted drugs have been added to ET in order to reverseendocrine resistance, but only limited information regarding their activity inpremenopausal patients is available. The cyclin dependent kinase 4 and 6inhibitor palbociclib when combined with fulvestrant and LHRH agonists was shown to prolong progression-free survival over endocrine therapy alone in pretreatedpatients; similar results were obtained with the addition of abemacicilib orribociclib to endocrine therapy. Currently, activity of the mammalian target ofrapamycin inhibitor everolimus in combination with letrozole and goserelin isunder assessment in premenopausal patients after progression on tamoxifen(MIRACLE trial).IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: This review provides clinicians withan overview on the available data regarding endocrine treatment of hormonereceptor positive (HR+) metastatic breast cancer (MBC) in premenopausal women andsummarizes the treatment options available in routine clinical practice.Knowledge of an up-to-date therapeutic approach in women with premenopausal HR+MBC will lead to better disease management, thereby improving disease control andquality of life while minimizing side effects.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0077 PMID: 29934412 