1. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2018 Jun 15. doi: 10.1007/s00262-018-2185-1. [Epubahead of print]Fighting breast cancer stem cells through the immune-targeting of the xCTcystine-glutamate antiporter.Ruiu R(1), Rolih V(1), Bolli E(1), Barutello G(1), Riccardo F(1), Quaglino E(1), Merighi IF(1), Pericle F(2), Donofrio G(3), Cavallo F(1), Conti L(1).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular Biotechnology and Health Sciences, MolecularBiotechnology Center, University of Turin, Via Nizza, 52, 10126, Turin, Italy.(2)Agilvax, Inc, Albuquerque, NM, USA.(3)Department of Medical Veterinary Science, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.Tumor relapse and metastatic spreading act as major hindrances to achievecomplete cure of breast cancer. Evidence suggests that cancer stem cells (CSC)would function as a reservoir for the local and distant recurrence of thedisease, due to their resistance to radio- and chemotherapy and their ability to regenerate the tumor. Therefore, the identification of appropriate moleculartargets expressed by CSC may be critical in the development of more effectivetherapies. Our studies focused on the identification of mammary CSC antigens and on the development of CSC-targeting vaccines. We compared the transcriptionalprofile of CSC-enriched tumorspheres from an Her2+ breast cancer cell line withthat of the more differentiated parental cells. Among the molecules stronglyupregulated in tumorspheres we selected the transmembrane amino-acid antiporterxCT. In this review, we summarize the results we obtained with differentxCT-targeting vaccines. We show that, despite xCT being a self-antigen,vaccination was able to induce a humoral immune response that delayed primarytumor growth and strongly impaired pulmonary metastasis formation in micechallenged with tumorsphere-derived cells. Moreover, immunotargeting of xCT wasable to increase CSC chemosensitivity to doxorubicin, suggesting that it may act as an adjuvant to chemotherapy. In conclusion, our approach based on thecomparison of the transcriptome of tumorspheres and parental cells allowed us to identify a novel CSC-related target and to develop preclinical therapeuticapproaches able to impact on CSC biology, and therefore, hampering tumor growthand dissemination.DOI: 10.1007/s00262-018-2185-1 PMID: 29947961 