95. BMC Cancer. 2018 Jun 26;18(1):690. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4586-0.Estrogen-related receptors alpha, beta and gamma expression and function isassociated with transcriptional repressor EZH2 in breast carcinoma.Kumari K(1), Adhya AK(2), Rath AK(3), Reddy PB(4), Mishra SK(5).Author information: (1)Cancer Biology Laboratory, Department of Gene Function and Regulation,Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar. Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha,India.(2)Department of Pathology, AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.(3)Hemalata Hospitals, Chandrashekharpur, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India.(4)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Govt. PG College Ratlam, Ratlam,MP, India.(5)Cancer Biology Laboratory, Department of Gene Function and Regulation,Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar. Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha,India. sandipkmishra@hotmail.com.BACKGROUND: Orphan nuclear receptors ERRα, ERRβ and ERRγ that belong to NR3B ortype IV nuclear receptor family are well studied for their role in breast cancer pathophysiology. Their homology with the canonical estrogen receptor dictatestheir possible contributing role in mammary gland development and disease.Although function and regulation of ERRα, ERRγ and less about ERRβ is reported,role of histone methylation in their altered expression in cancer cells is notstudied. Transcriptional activity of nuclear receptors depends on co-regulatoryproteins. The present study for the first time gives an insight into regulationof estrogen-related receptors by histone methylation specifically throughmethyltransferase EZH2 in breast cancer.METHODS: Expression of ERRα, ERRβ, ERRγ and EZH2 was assessed byimmunohistochemistry in four identical tissue array slides that were prepared as per the protocol. The array slides were stained with ERRα, ERRβ, ERRγ and EZH2simultaneously. Array data was correlated with expression in MERAV expressiondataset. Pearson correlation coeficient r was calculated from the partial matrix expression values available at MERAV database to study the strength ofassociation between EZH2 and three orphan nuclear receptors under study. Bywestern blot and real time PCR, their correlated expression was studied in breastcancer cell lines MCF-7, MDA-MB-231, T47D and MDA-MB-453 including normal breast epithelial MCF-10A cells at both protein and RNA level. Regulation of ERRα, ERRβ,ERRγ by EZH2 was further investigated upon overexpression and silencing of EZH2. The interaction between ERRs and EZH2 was validated in vivo by CHIP-qPCR.RESULTS: We found a negative correlation between estrogen-related receptors andEnhancer of Zeste Homolog 2, a global repressor gene. Immunohistochemistry inprimary breast tumors of different grades showed a correlated expression ofestrogen-related receptors and EZH2. Their correlated expression was furthervalidated using online MERAV expression dataset where a negative correlation ofvariable strengths was observed in breast cancer. Ectopic expression of EZH2 inlow EZH2-expressing normal breast epithelial cells abrogated their expression andat the same time, its silencing enhanced the expression of estrogen-relatedreceptors in cancerous cells. Global occupancy of EZH2 on ERRα and ERRβ wasobserved in-vivo.CONCLUSION: Our findings identify EZH2 as a relevant coregulator forestrogen-related receptors in breast carcinoma.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4586-0 PMCID: PMC6019302PMID: 29940916 