115. Biochem Pharmacol. 2018 Jun 27. pii: S0006-2952(18)30238-7. doi:10.1016/j.bcp.2018.06.025. [Epub ahead of print]Appraising the "entourage effect": Antitumor action of a pure cannabinoid versus a botanical drug preparation in preclinical models of breast cancer.Blasco-Benito S(1), Seijo-Vila M(2), Caro-Villalobos M(2), Tundidor I(2),Andradas C(3), García-Taboada E(3), Wade J(4), Smith S(4), Guzmán M(5),Pérez-Gómez E(2), Gordon M(4), Sánchez C(6).Author information: (1)Complutense University, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: s.blasco@ucm.es.(2)Complutense University, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.(3)Complutense University, Madrid, Spain.(4)Aunt Zelda's, CA, United States.(5)Complutense University, Madrid, Spain; Instituto Ramón y Cajal deInvestigación Sanitaria, CIBERNED and IUIN, Madrid, Spain.(6)Complutense University, Madrid, Spain; Instituto de Investigación Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: cristina.sanchez@quim.ucm.es.Breast cancer is the second leading cause of death among women. Although earlydiagnosis and development of new treatments have improved their prognosis, manypatients present innate or acquired resistance to current therapies. Newtherapeutic approaches are therefore warranted for the management of thisdisease. Extensive preclinical research has demonstrated that cannabinoids, theactive ingredients of Cannabis sativa, trigger antitumor responses in differentmodels of cancer. Most of these studies have been conducted with pure compounds, mainly Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). The cannabis plant, however, produceshundreds of other compounds with their own therapeutic potential and thecapability to induce synergic responses when combined, the so-called "entourageeffect". Here, we compared the antitumor efficacy of pure THC with that of abotanical drug preparation (BDP). The BDP was more potent than pure THC inproducing antitumor responses in cell culture and animal models of ER+/PR+, HER2+and triple-negative breast cancer. This increased potency was not due to thepresence of the 5 most abundant terpenes in the preparation. While pure THC actedby activating cannabinoid CB2 receptors and generating reactive oxygen species,the BDP modulated different targets and mechanisms of action. The combination of cannabinoids with estrogen receptor- or HER2-targeted therapies (tamoxifen andlapatinib, respectively) or with cisplatin, produced additive antiproliferativeresponses in cell cultures. Combinations of these treatments in vivo showed nointeractions, either positive or negative. Together, our results suggest thatstandardized cannabis drug preparations, rather than pure cannabinoids, could be considered as part of the therapeutic armamentarium to manage breast cancer.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2018.06.025 PMID: 29940172 