169. Scand J Pain. 2018 Jun 27. pii:/j/sjpain.ahead-of-print/sjpain-2018-0050/sjpain-2018-0050.xml. doi:10.1515/sjpain-2018-0050. [Epub ahead of print]Colored body images reveal the perceived intensity and distribution of pain inwomen with breast cancer treated with adjuvant taxanes: a prospectivemulti-method study of pain experiences.Hellerstedt-Börjesson S(1)(2), Nordin K(3), Fjällskog ML(4), Rissanen R(5),Peterson M(3)(6)(7), Arving C(3).Author information: (1)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, Box 564, SE-751 22 Uppsala, Sweden.(2)Center for Clinical Research Dalarna, Falun, Sweden.(3)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.(4)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.(5)Karolinska Institutet, Department of Public Health Sciences, Stockholm,Sweden.(6)Academic Primary Healthcare Centre, Stockholm, Sweden.(7)Division of Family Medicine and Primary Care Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Breast cancer is the most prevalent adult cancer worldwide. A broader use of screening for early detection and adjuvant systemic therapy withchemotherapy has resulted in improved survival rates. Taxane-containingchemotherapy is one of the cornerstones of the treatment. However,taxane-containing chemotherapy may result in acute chemotherapy-inducednociceptive and neuropathic pain. Since this pain may be an additional burden forthe patient both during and after taxane chemotherapy, it is important to rapidlydiscover and treat it. There is yet no gold standard for assessing taxane-inducedpain. In the clinic, applying multiple methods for collecting information on painmay better describe the patients' pain experiences. The aim was to document thepain during and after taxane through the contribution of different methods forcollecting information on taxane-induced pain. Fifty-three women scheduled foradjuvant sequential chemotherapy at doses of ≥75 mg/m2 of docetaxel andepirubicin were enrolled in the study.METHODS: Prospective pain assessments were done on a visual analog scale (VAS)before and during each cycle of treatment for about 5 months, and using theEuropean Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of LifeQuestionnaire's (EORTC-QLQ-C30) two pain questions at baseline, 3 months, and 12 months. Participants scoring pain on the VAS >30 and undergoing an interview alsocolored their pain on a body image during treatment and at 12 months.RESULTS: Surprisingly widespread, intense pain was detected using a multi-method approach. The colored body image showed pain being perceived on 51% of the bodysurface area during treatment, and on 18% 12 months after inclusion. In general, the pain started and peaked in intensity after the first cycle of taxane. AfterCycle 3, most women reported an increase in pain on the VAS. Some women continuedto report some pain even during the epirubicin cycles. The VAS scores droppedafter the last chemotherapy cycle, but not to the baseline level. At baseline, 3 months and 12 months after inclusion, the women who estimated VAS >30 reportedhigher levels of pain on the pain questions of the EORTC-QLQ-C30.CONCLUSIONS: This study contributes information on how different pain assessment tools offer different information in the assessment of pain. The colored bodyimage brings another dimension to pain diagnostics, providing additionalinformation on the involved body areas and the pain intensities as experienced bythe women. A multi-method approach to assessing pain offers many advantages. The timing of the assessment is important to properly assess pain.IMPLICATIONS: Pain relief needs to be included in the chemotherapy treatment,with individual assessment and treatment of pain, in the same way as is done inchemotherapy-triggered nausea. There is a time window whereby the risk of paindevelopment is at its highest within 24-48 h after receiving taxane chemotherapy.Proper attention to pain evaluation and treatment should be in focus during this time window.DOI: 10.1515/sjpain-2018-0050 PMID: 29949517 