111. Transl Oncol. 2018 Aug;11(4):988-998. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2018.06.001. Epub2018 Jun 22.Activating Transcription Factor 3 as a Novel Regulator of Chemotherapy Responsein Breast Cancer.Hasim MS(1), Nessim C(2), Villeneuve PJ(3), Vanderhyden BC(4), DimitroulakosJ(5).Author information: (1)Cancer Therapeutics Program at the Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa,Ontario, Canada; Department of Biochemistry at the University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.(2)Department of General Surgery, The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.(4)Cancer Therapeutics Program at the Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa,Ontario, Canada; Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University ofOttawa, Ottawa, Canada.(5)Cancer Therapeutics Program at the Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa,Ontario, Canada; Department of Biochemistry at the University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address: jdimitroulakos@ohri.ca.Anthracyclines, such as doxorubicin, are used as first-line chemotherapeutics,usually in combination therapies, for the treatment of advanced breast cancer.While these drugs have been successful therapeutic options, their use is limited due to serious drug related toxicities and acquired tumor resistance. Uncovering the molecular mechanisms that mediate doxorubicin's cytotoxic effect will lead tothe identification of novel more efficacious combination therapies and allow for reduced doses of doxorubicin to be administered while maintaining efficacy. Inour study, we demonstrate that activating transcription factor (ATF) 3 expressionwas upregulated by doxorubicin treatment in a representative panel of humanbreast cancer cell lines MCF7 and MDA-MB-231. We have also shown that doxorubicintreatment can induce ATF3 expression in ex vivo human breast and ovarian tumorsamples. The upregulation of ATF3 in the cell lines was regulated by multiplecellular mechanisms including the activation of JNK and ATM signaling pathways.Importantly, loss of ATF3 expression resulted in reduced sensitivity todoxorubicin treatment in mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Through a 1200 FDA-approvedcompound library screen, we identified a number of agents whose cytotoxicity isdependent on ATF3 expression that also enhanced doxorubicin induced cytotoxicity.For example, the combination of the HDAC inhibitor vorinostat or the nucleosideanalogue trifluridine could synergistically enhance doxorubicin cytotoxicity inthe MCF7 cell line. Synergy in cell lines with the combination of ATF3 inducersand patients with elevated basal levels of ATF3 shows enhanced response tochemotherapy. Taken together, our results demonstrate a role for ATF3 inmediating doxorubicin cytotoxicity and provide rationale for the combination ofATF3-inducing agents with doxorubicin as a novel therapeutic approach.Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.tranon.2018.06.001 PMCID: PMC6039300PMID: 29940414 