22. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Jun 26. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4862-3. [Epub aheadof print]Pharmacometabolomics reveals a role for histidine, phenylalanine, and threoninein the development of paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy.Sun Y(1)(2), Kim JH(1)(2), Vangipuram K(1), Hayes DF(3), Smith EML(4), YeomansL(1)(2), Henry NL(5), Stringer KA(1)(2), Hertz DL(6)(7).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Michigan College of Pharmacy,Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(2)The NMR Metabolomics Laboratory, College of Pharmacy, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(3)Rogel Cancer Center, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI,USA.(4)Department of Health Behavior and Biological Sciences, University of Michigan School of Nursing, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.(5)Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah Health Care, Salt Lake City, UT,USA.(6)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Michigan College of Pharmacy,Ann Arbor, MI, USA. DLHertz@med.umich.edu.(7)Rogel Cancer Center, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI,USA. DLHertz@med.umich.edu.PURPOSE: Approximately 25% of breast cancer patients experience treatment delays or discontinuation due to paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy (PN).Currently, there are no predictive biomarkers of PN. Pharmacometabolomics is aninformative tool for biomarker discovery of drug toxicity. We conducted asecondary whole blood pharmacometabolomics analysis to assess the associationbetween pretreatment metabolome, early treatment-induced metabolic changes, andthe development of PN.METHODS: Whole blood samples were collected pre-treatment (BL), just before theend of the first paclitaxel infusion (EOI), and 24 h after the first infusion(24H) from sixty patients with breast cancer receiving (80 mg/m2) weeklytreatment. Neuropathy was assessed at BL and prior to each infusion using thesensory subscale (CIPN8) of the EORTC CIPN20 questionnaire. Blood metaboliteswere quantified from 1-D-1H-nuclear magnetic resonance spectra using Chenomx®software. Metabolite concentrations were normalized in preparation for Pearsoncorrelation and one-way repeated measures ANOVA with multiple comparisonscorrected by false discovery rate (FDR).RESULTS: Pretreatment histidine, phenylalanine, and threonine concentrations wereinversely associated with maximum change in CIPN8 (ΔCIPN8) (p < 0.02; FDR ≤ 25%).Paclitaxel caused a significant change in concentrations of 2-hydroxybutyrate,3-hydroxybutyrate, pyruvate, o-acetylcarnitine, and several amino acids from BLto EOI and/or 24H (p < 0.05; FDR ≤ 25%), although these changes were notassociated with ΔCIPN8.CONCLUSIONS: Whole blood metabolomics is a feasible approach to identifypotential biomarker candidates of paclitaxel-induced PN. The findings suggestthat pretreatment concentrations of histidine, phenylalanine, and threonine maybe predictive of the severity of future PN and paclitaxel-induced metabolicchanges may be related to disruption of energy homeostasis.DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4862-3 PMID: 29946863 