50. Histopathology. 2018 Jun 26. doi: 10.1111/his.13694. [Epub ahead of print]Are FNAB-derived cell blocks a useful surrogate for tissue samples in breastcancer?Puccetti M(1), Ravaioli S(2), Tumedei MM(2), Bucchi E(3), Malmesi M(3), MedriL(4), Bravaccini S(2).Author information: (1)Pathology Unit, Santa Maria delle Croci Hospital, Ravenna, Italy.(2)Biosciences Laboratory, Istituto Scientifico Romagnolo per lo Studio e la Curadei, Tumori (IRST) IRCCS, Meldola, Italy.(3)Cancer Prevention Centre, Santa Maria delle Croci Hospital, Ravenna, Italy.(4)Pathology Unit, Morgagni-Pierantoni Hospital, Forlì, Italy.BACKGROUND: The diagnosis of breast cancer (BC) is based on clinical examination in combination with imaging and confirmed by pathological assessment of coreneedle biopsy (CNB) or fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB). The biologicalprofile of the lesion is needed to define the prognosis and establish therapy.Given the importance of an early and minimally invasive diagnosis, we aimed toverify whether the biological features detected in FNAB-derived cytologicalmaterial reflect the biological characteristics of surgical specimens.METHODS: We used immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization(FISH) to study a panel of conventional biomarkers (ER, PgR, Ki67 and HER2) inFNAB-derived cytological specimens included in cell blocks of 93 BC patients,comparing results with those obtained from the histological evaluation of thesame parameters.RESULTS: Median immunopositive values of ER, PgR and Ki67 were similar in cellblocks and surgical samples. The concordance of ER and PgR between FNAB andhistological samples was 98% and 84%, respectively. With regard to Ki67 and HER2 status, concordance between the two specimen types was 90% and 96%, respectively.Tumor subtype classification for triple-negative and HER2-positive tumors in FNABsamples was always concordant with the subtype determined in surgical material.CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that biological marker determination in FNAB-derivedcell blocks is feasible and provides useful information and comparable results tothose obtained by histological evaluation. Given the low cost of the procedureand its minimal impact on patients, we believe that cytological samples could be used as an alternative to tissue samples for early BC biomarker evaluation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1111/his.13694 PMID: 29944734 