28. Cureus. 2018 Apr 24;10(4):e2527. doi: 10.7759/cureus.2527.Surveillance Screening in Li-Fraumeni Syndrome: Raising Awareness of FalsePositives.Kumar P(1), Gill RM(2), Phelps A(3), Tulpule A(4), Matthay K(1), Nicolaides T(5).Author information: (1)Pediatrics, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, USA.(2)Pathology, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, USA.(3)Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, University of California, San FranciscoBenioff Children's Hospital, San Francisco, USA.(4)Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, University of California, San Francisco, SanFrancisco, USA.(5)Pediatrics, NYU Langone Medical Center, New York, NEW YORK, USA.Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS) is a rare cancer predisposition syndrome inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion that involves a germline mutation of tumor protein 53 (TP53). With the advent of more accessible and accurate genetic testingmethods, along with more widespread knowledge of LFS, asymptomatic carriers cannow be more easily identified. No general surveillance protocols were previously recommended other than routine physical exams and breast and colon cancerscreening at younger ages, primarily due to questions involving efficacy, cost,and clinical benefits. With more data now available to support the implementationof a surveillance protocol for cancer predisposition syndromes such as LFS,preventative screening has become a national standard of care. However, assurveillance becomes more integrated into patient care, the benefits and risksmust be further evaluated. We briefly describe our institutional experience with surveillance screening in LFS and describe two patients in depth wheresurveillance imaging brought to light false positives that led to increasedutilization of resources and concern for new malignancy. Though the benefits ofsurveillance are clear, it is important to understand the potential for falsepositives involved with instituting this practice. Continued research of thistopic is thus warranted, perhaps with larger prospective studies, to bettercapture the survival benefits of patients undergoing surveillance screening andmore comprehensively understand the incidence of false positives.DOI: 10.7759/cureus.2527 PMCID: PMC6017131PMID: 29946497 