110. Cancer Epidemiol. 2018 Aug;55:123-129. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.06.002. Epub2018 Jun 22.Anxiety and depression in women with breast cancer: Social and clinicaldeterminants and influence of the social network and social support (DAMAcohort).Puigpinós-Riera R(1), Graells-Sans A(2), Serral G(3), Continente X(4), BargallóX(5), Domènech M(6), Espinosa-Bravo M(7), Grau J(8), Macià F(9), Manzanera R(10),Pla M(11), Quintana MJ(12), Sala M(13), Vidal E(14).Author information: (1)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB), Barcelona, Catalonia; CIBER deEpidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain; Institut de RecercaBiomèdica Sant Pau (IIB St. Pau), Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:rpuigpi@aspb.cat.(2)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB), Barcelona, Catalonia; CampusDocent Sant Joan de Déu-Fundació Privada, Barcelona, Catalonia; Departament deCiències Experimentals i de la Salut, Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF),(Experimental and Health Sciences Department, Pompeu Fabra University),Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address: agraells@santjoandedeu.edu.es.(3)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB), Barcelona, Catalonia; CIBER deEpidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain; Institut de RecercaBiomèdica Sant Pau (IIB St. Pau), Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:gserral@aspb.cat.(4)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona (ASPB), Barcelona, Catalonia; CIBER deEpidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain; Institut de RecercaBiomèdica Sant Pau (IIB St. Pau), Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:xcontine@aspb.cat.(5)Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:xbarga@clinic.ub.es.(6)Association of Women with Breast Cancer (Agata), Barcelona, Catalonia.Electronic address: info@grupagata.org.(7)Hospital Vall d'Hebron de Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:maespino@vhebron.net.(8)Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:jgrau@clinic.ub.es.(9)Parc de Salut Mar de Barcelona, Catalonia; Institut Hospital del Mard'Investigació Mèdica, Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:FMacia@parcdesalutmar.cat.(10)MC Mutual, Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:rmanzanera@mc-mutual.com.(11)Universitat de Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address: m.pla@ub.edu.(12)CIBER de Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), Madrid, Spain; Institut deRecerca Biomèdica Sant Pau (IIB St. Pau), Barcelona, Catalonia; Hospital de laSta, Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:MJQuintana@santpau.cat.(13)Parc de Salut Mar de Barcelona, Catalonia; Institut Hospital del Mard'Investigació Mèdica, Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address:MSalaSerra@parcdesalutmar.cat.(14)Facultat de Ciències de la Salut Blanquerna-Universitat Ramón Llull,Barcelona, Catalonia. Electronic address: eulaliavg@blanquerna.url.edu.BACKGROUND: Anxiety and depression are the most prevalent mental healthpathologies among women with breast cancer. Social, clinical and contextualvariables may influence emotional stress among women with breast cancer. The aim of this work is to study anxiety and depression in a cohort of women diagnosedwith breast cancer between 2003 and 2013 in Barcelona. We evaluate social andclinical determinants.METHODS: We performed a mixed cohort study (prospective and retrospective) using a convenience sample of women diagnosed with breast cancer. The informationsources were the Hospital Anxiety and Depression questionnaire and hospitalmedical records. Dependent variables were anxiety and depression; independentvariables were social class, age, employment status, tumour stage at diagnosis,time since diagnosis, social network and social support. We performed adescriptive analysis, a bivariate analysis, and a multivariate logisticregression analysis.RESULTS: A total of 1086 (48.6%) women had some degree of anxiety-relatedproblem. As for depression. In the case of depression, 225 (15%) women had somedegree of depression-related problem. Low emotional support and social isolation were clear risk factors for having more anxiety and depression. Low social class was also a risk factor, and age also played a role.DISCUSSION: Our results show that women long period of cancer survival have high prevalences of anxiety than depression, and this prevalence of anxiety is higher than the general population. In addition, we found inequalities between socialclasses and the isolation and social support are worse too in low social class.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.06.002 PMID: 29940418 