118. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2018 Jun 25. doi: 10.1002/bit.26778. [Epub ahead of print]Vascularized microfluidic platforms to mimic the tumor microenvironment.Michna R(1), Gadde M(2), Ozkan A(1), DeWitt M(3), Rylander M(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin, 204 EDean Keeton St, Austin, TX.(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The University of Texas at Austin, 107 WDean Keeton St, Austin, TX.(3)School of Biomedical Engineering & Sciences, Virginia Tech, 325 Stanger St,Blacksburg, VA.Microfluidic technology has led to the development of advanced in vitro tumorplatforms that overcome the challenges of in vivo animal and in vitro twodimensional models. This paper presents platform designs and methods used todevelop complex vascularized in vitro models to mimic the tumor microenvironment.Features of these platforms include a continuous, aligned endothelium that allowsfor cell-cell interactions between vasculature and tumor cells. A novel platform for fabrication of a single endothelialized microchannel encased within acollagen platform hosting breast cancer cells was developed and utilized to studythe influence of cellular interaction on transport phenomenon through vasculaturein a hyperpermeable tumor microenvironment. This platform relies on subtractivetissue engineering fabrication techniques. Through confocal imaging we havedemonstrated that the platform produces enhanced vessel leakiness recapitulating physiological features of the tumor microenvironment. The influence of tumorendothelial interactions on transport of particles was also demonstrated.Additionally, we designed two more complex and intricate endothelializedmicrofluidic networks by combining lithographic techniques with additive tissueengineering methods. We created a network platform consisting of interconnectedmicrochannels to model a highly vascularized system and successfully perfused thesystem with fluorescent particles. Finally, we developed a physiologicallyrepresentative in vitro microfluidic platform with vasculature patterned from in vivo data showing the versatility of these systems to replicate the complexgeometries of tumor microvasculature and dynamically measured particle transport.Overall, we have shown the ability to develop functional microfluidic vasculartumor platforms of varying complexities and demonstrated their utility forstudying spatial particle transport within these systems. This article isprotected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/bit.26778 PMID: 29940072 