26. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2018 Jun 12;6:56. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2018.00056. eCollection2018.Underlying Causes and Therapeutic Targeting of the Inflammatory TumorMicroenvironment.Comen EA(1), Bowman RL(2)(3), Kleppe M(2)(3).Author information: (1)Breast Cancer Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering CancerCenter, New York, NY, United States.(2)Center for Hematopoietic Malignancies, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center,New York, NY, United States.(3)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering CancerCenter, New York, NY, United States.Historically, the link between chronic inflammation and cancer has long beenspeculated. Only more recently, pre-clinical and epidemiologic data as well asclinical evidence all point to the role of the tumor microenvironment asinextricably connected to the neoplastic process. The tumor microenvironment(TME), a complex mix of vasculature, inflammatory cells, and stromal cells is theessential "soil" helping to modulate tumor potential. Increasingly, evidencesuggests that chronic inflammation modifies the tumor microenvironment, via ahost of mechanisms, including the production of cytokines, pro-inflammatorymediators, angiogenesis, and tissue remodeling. Inflammation can be triggered by a variety of different pressures, such as carcinogen exposure, immunedysfunction, dietary habits, and obesity, as well as genetic alterations leading to oncogene activation or loss of tumor suppressors. In this review, we examinethe concept of the tumor microenvironment as related to both extrinsic andintrinsic stimuli that promote chronic inflammation and in turn tumorigenesis.Understanding the common pathways inherent in an inflammatory response and thetumor microenvironment may shed light on new therapies for both primary andmetastatic disease. The concept of personalized medicine has pushed the field of oncology to drill down on the genetic changes of a cancer, in the hopes ofidentifying individually targeted agents. Given the complexities of the tumormicroenvironment, it is clear that effective oncologic therapies will necessitatetargeting not only the cancer cells, but their dynamic relationship to the tumor microenvironment as well.DOI: 10.3389/fcell.2018.00056 PMCID: PMC6005853PMID: 29946544 