2. Radiologe. 2018 Jun 8. doi: 10.1007/s00117-018-0409-1. [Epub ahead of print]Imaging and the completion of the omics paradigm in breast cancer.Leithner D(1)(2), Horvat JV(1), Ochoa-Albiztegui RE(1), Thakur S(1), WengertG(3), Morris EA(1), Helbich TH(3), Pinker K(4)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, Breast Imaging Service, Memorial Sloan KetteringCancer Center, 300 E 66th St, 7th Floor, 10065, New York, NY, USA.(2)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University HospitalFrankfurt, Frankfurt, Germany.(3)Department of Biomedical Imaging and Image-guided Therapy, Division ofMolecular and Gender Imaging, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.(4)Department of Radiology, Breast Imaging Service, Memorial Sloan KetteringCancer Center, 300 E 66th St, 7th Floor, 10065, New York, NY, USA.pinkerdk@mskcc.org.(5)Department of Biomedical Imaging and Image-guided Therapy, Division ofMolecular and Gender Imaging, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.pinkerdk@mskcc.org.Within the field of oncology, "omics" strategies-genomics, transcriptomics,proteomics, metabolomics-have many potential applications and may significantlyimprove our understanding of the underlying processes of cancer development andprogression. Omics strategies aim to develop meaningful imaging biomarkers forbreast cancer (BC) by rapid assessment of large datasets with differentbiological information. In BC the paradigm of omics technologies has alwaysfavored the integration of multiple layers of omics data to achieve a completeportrait of BC. Advances in medical imaging technologies, image analysis, and thedevelopment of high-throughput methods that can extract and correlate multipleimaging parameters with "omics" data have ushered in a new direction in medicalresearch. Radiogenomics is a novel omics strategy that aims to correlate imaging characteristics (i. e., the imaging phenotype) with underlying gene expressionpatterns, gene mutations, and other genome-related characteristics. Radiogenomicsnot only represents the evolution in the radiology-pathology correlation from theanatomical-histological level to the molecular level, but it is also a pivotalstep in the omics paradigm in BC in order to fully characterize BC. Armed withmodern analytical software tools, radiogenomics leads to new discoveries ofquantitative and qualitative imaging biomarkers that offer hitherto unprecedentedinsights into the complex tumor biology and facilitate a deeper understanding of cancer development and progression. The field of radiogenomics in breast canceris rapidly evolving, and results from previous studies are encouraging. It can beexpected that radiogenomics will play an important role in the future and has thepotential to revolutionize the diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of BCpatients. This article aims to give an overview of breast radiogenomics, itscurrent role, future applications, and challenges.DOI: 10.1007/s00117-018-0409-1 PMID: 29947931 