71. Biomater Sci. 2018 Jul 24;6(8):2172-2188. doi: 10.1039/c8bm00486b.Low molecular weight heparin-based reduction-sensitive nanoparticles forantitumor and anti-metastasis of orthotopic breast cancer.Sun H (1), Cao D , Liu Y , Wang H , Ke X , Ci T .Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutics, State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, China Pharmaceutical University, 24 Tongjiaxiang, Nanjing 210009, China.citianyuan_cpu@163.com kexue1973@vip.sina.com.Tumor metastasis has become a major obstacle for the clinical treatment ofmalignant breast cancer. Thus, a delivery system capable of both antitumor andanti-metastasis efficacy is desired. In this work, a low molecular weight heparin(LMWH)-based reduction-sensitive delivery system was developed, aiming to combinethe properties of both the antitumor drug and active excipients to achieve asynergistic antitumor and anti-metastatic efficiency as well as resolving thepotential adverse effects of both doxorubicin and LMWH. That is, the efficiencyof DOX could be enhanced and its toxicity could be lowered. Meanwhile, thebiological properties of LMWH could be strengthened and its bleeding risk couldalso be alleviated. Briefly, drug-loaded crosslinked nanoparticles (DOX/cLLHC2)had a longer blood circulation time and exhibited a rapid reduction-triggeredrelease of DOX. The in vitro assays revealed that DOX/cLLHC2 exhibited a highercellular uptake and cytotoxicity compared to free DOX. Meanwhile, for theexistence of LMWH, DOX/cLLHC2 inhibited cell migration and invasion, as well aseffectively inhibited the tube-like formation of human umbilical vein endothelialcells. DOX/cLLHC2 possessed a superior tumor accumulation compared to lipoic acidunmodified nanoparticles and free DOX. Also, DOX/cLLHC2 exhibited encouragingantitumor and anti-metastasis efficiency in an orthotopic breast cancer model.Overall, DOX/cLLHC2 could exert antitumor, anti-metastasis, and anti-angiogenesisefficacy simultaneously as well as having lower systemic toxicity, which makes itsuitable for the therapy of metastatic breast carcinoma.DOI: 10.1039/c8bm00486b PMID: 29942949 