117. Biomacromolecules. 2018 Jul 23. doi: 10.1021/acs.biomac.8b00640. [Epub ahead ofprint]Verteporfin-Loaded Poly(ethylene glycol)-Poly(beta-amino ester)-Poly(ethyleneglycol) Triblock Micelles for Cancer Therapy.Kim J, Shamul JG, Shah SR(1), Shin A, Lee BJ, Quinones-Hinojosa A(1), GreenJJ(2).Author information: (1)Department of Neurosurgery , Mayo Clinic , Jacksonville , Florida 32224 ,United States.(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Department of Neurosurgery, Department ofMaterials Science and Engineering, and Department of Chemical and BiomolecularEngineering , Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , Maryland 21218 , UnitedStates.Amphiphilic polymers can be used to form micelles to deliver water-insolubledrugs. A biodegradable poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG)-poly(beta-amino ester)(PBAE)-PEG triblock copolymer was developed that is useful for drug delivery. It was shown to successfully encapsulate and pH-dependently release awater-insoluble, small molecule anticancer drug, verteporfin. PEG-PBAE-PEGmicelle morphology was also controlled through variations to the hydrophobicityof the central PBAE block of the copolymer in order to evade macrophage uptake.Spherical micelles were 50 nm in diameter, while filamentous micelles were 31 nm in width with an average aspect ratio of 20. When delivered to RAW 264.7 mousemacrophages, filamentous micelles exhibited a 89% drop in cellular uptakepercentage and a 5.6-fold drop in normalized geometric mean cellular uptakecompared to spherical micelles. This demonstrates the potential ofhigh-aspect-ratio, anisotropically shaped PEG-PBAE-PEG micelles to evademacrophage-mediated clearance. Both spherical and filamentous micelles alsoshowed therapeutic efficacy in human triple-negative breast cancer and small celllung cancer cells without requiring photodynamic therapy to achieve an anticancereffect. Both spherical and filamentous micelles were more effective in killinglung cancer cells than breast cancer cells at equivalent verteporfinconcentrations, while spherical micelles were shown to be more effective thanfilamentous micelles against both cancer cells. Spherical and filamentousmicelles at 5 and 10 μM respective verteporfin concentration resulted in 100%cell killing of lung cancer cells, but both micelles required a higherverteporfin concentration of 20 μM to kill breast cancer cells at the levels of80% and 50% respectively. This work demonstrates the potential of PEG-PBAE-PEG asa biodegradable, anisotropic drug delivery system as well as the in vitro use of verteporfin-loaded micelles for cancer therapy.DOI: 10.1021/acs.biomac.8b00640 PMID: 29940101 