42. Cancer Biomark. 2018 Jun 11. doi: 10.3233/CBM-181295. [Epub ahead of print]Analysis of T cell receptor repertoire based on Vβ chain in patients with breast cancer.Faghih Z(1)(2), Deihimi S(3), Ghaderi A(1)(2), Erfani N(1).Author information: (1)Shiraz Institute for Cancer Research, School of Medicine, Shiraz University ofMedical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.(2)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of MedicalSciences, Shiraz, Iran.(3)Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Abramson CancerCenter, Philadelphia, PA, USA.To find out if the T cell repertoire is efficiently and specifically provoked in patients with breast cancer, we have investigated the clonotypes of main T cellsubsets (based on Vβ-Chain) in tumor draining lymph nodes. CD4+ helper, CD8+cytotoxic and (CD4+CD127dimCD25+) regulatory T cells, were negatively selected,and isolated, from lymph node mononuclear cells of 14 untreated patients withbreast cancer. Four non-malignant patients, who underwent surgical operation,were also recruited as the control group. Based on sequences and new nomenclatureof the T cell Receptor β Variables (TRBVs) available in the internationalImMunoGeneTics (IMGT) database, 28 TRBV specific forward primers and two TRBConstant region (TRBC) specific reverse primers were developed to amplify allfunctional alleles. Fluorescent-labeled PCR products were then run on an ABIPRISM 310 Genetic-Analyzer. The data was analyzed by GeneMapper software version 3.1. Clonotype analysis suggested that activated T cells are present in breastcancer. More TRBV usage were detected among CD4+ helper and regulatory subsets,with Gaussian-like pattern in the majority of functional TRBV families; whereasCD8+ cytotoxic T cells showed oligoclonality in almost all TRBV families with oneor two dominant peaks in each family. Similar pattern in some of these TRBVs werealso observed among controls. Having no expression or polyclonality in thecontrols, the oligoclonal pattern observed in the TRBV18, however, appears to be specific to breast cancer patients. This phenomenon may reflect the existence of new antigenic stimulation(s) in BC patients, preferentially activating thoseclones of T cells that express TRBV18.DOI: 10.3233/CBM-181295 PMID: 29945345 