57. Psychooncology. 2018 Jun 28. doi: 10.1002/pon.4828. [Epub ahead of print]Social support and breast cancer screening in rural Appalachia.Smalls BL(1), Aroh A(2), McQuerry K(3), Adegboyega A(4), Schoenberg N(2)(5),Hatcher J(4).Author information: (1)Center for Health Services Research, College of Medicine, University ofKentucky, Lexington, Kentucky.(2)College of Public Health, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky.(3)Department of Statistics, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky.(4)College of Nursing, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky.(5)Department of Behavioral and Social Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky.PURPOSE: Women in the Appalachian region have a high mortality rate attributable to cancer in spite of lower incidence of cancer compared with the general USpopulation. Empirical evidence suggests that social support influences canceroutcomes, including adherence to screening guidelines and treatmentrecommendations. The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of socialsupport on breast cancer screening patterns in a sample of rural Appalachianwomen.METHODS: This paper reports the results of analyses of baseline cross-sectionaldata on breast cancer screening collected during a community-basedgroup-randomized trial. We used the 2010 National Health Institute Surveyquestionnaires and the Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey to assessscreening behavior and perceived social support, respectively. Data were analyzedusing ANCOVA and ANOVA to assess the mean social support on breast cancerscreening patterns (frequently, irregularly, and rarely/never) and relevantsociodemographic variables.FINDINGS: Of the eligible participant records analyzed (N = 289), 50% weremarried, 36% were employed, 20% attended college, 40% had no mammogram in6 years, and 20% never had mammograms. Overall social support score was high at73.1 (SD = 18.2). Association between breast cancer screening patterns and socialsupport scores was not statistically significant at α < 0.05 (P value = 0.09).CONCLUSIONS: Although social support as it measured in this study does not showsignificant associations with screening patterns, it is important to understandhow social network structures may influence screening patterns. Familial andsocial roles/responsibilities that result in reported social support may also be the barrier to cancer screening and other prevention health behaviors.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4828 PMID: 29956391 