42. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2018 Jun 29:e12872. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12872. [Epub aheadof print]Guilt among husband caregivers of Chinese women with breast cancer: The roles of male gender-role norm, caregiving burden and coping processes.Yeung NCY(1), Zhang Y(2), Ji L(2), Lu G(2), Lu Q(3)(4).Author information: (1)The Jockey Club School of Public Health and Primary Care, The ChineseUniversity of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.(2)Department of Medical Nursing, Weifang Medical University, Weifang, China.(3)Department of Health Disparities Research, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, Texas.(4)Department of Psychology, University of Houston, Houston, Texas.Caregiver guilt (i.e., feeling of inadequacy in providing care to patients) iscommonly experienced and studied among husbands of breast cancer survivors inWestern countries. However, little is known about the psychosocial correlates of caregiver guilt in their Chinese counterparts. A total of 176 husbands of Chinesebreast cancer survivors completed a cross-sectional survey in Weifang, Shandongprovince, China. As expected, hierarchical regression results showed that higher caregiving burden was associated with higher levels of caregiver guilt. However, for those who had stronger endorsement of the "Masculinity strength" gender-role norm, higher seeking social support from spouse was associated with higher guilt;for those with higher levels of marital satisfaction, higher protective buffering(i.e., hiding of concerns and negative emotions to protect others) was associatedwith lower caregiver guilt. Western assumptions on the harm of protectivebuffering and the benefits of support seeking as well as related supportiveevidence among Western populations do not directly apply to the Chinese culture, which should be brought awareness to research and practice. Practitioners should consider the cultural background of the caregivers and should not simplyencourage support seeking and discourage protective buffering.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12872 PMID: 29956873 