104. J Cell Biochem. 2018 Jun 28. doi: 10.1002/jcb.27196. [Epub ahead of print]Valproic acid inhibits the protective effects of stromal cells againstchemotherapy in breast cancer: Insights from proteomics and systems biology.Barneh F(1)(2)(3), Salimi M(2), Goshadrou F(1), Ashtiani M(3)(4), Mirzaie M(5),Zali H(6), Jafari M(3).Author information: (1)Department of Basic Sciences, Faculty of Paramedical Sciences, Shahid BeheshtiUniversity of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(2)Physiology and Pharmacology Department, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran,Iran.(3)Drug Design and Bioinformatics Unit, Medical Biotechnology Department,Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran.(4)Department of Computer Science and Statistics, Faculty of Mathematics, K. N.Toosi University of Technology, Tehran, Iran.(5)Department of Applied Mathematics, Faculty of Mathematical Sciences, TarbiatModares University, Tehran, Iran.(6)School of Advanced Technologies in Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University ofMedical sciences, Tehran, Iran.Interaction between tumor and stromal cells is beginning to be decoded as acontributor to chemotherapy resistance. Here, we aim to take a system-levelapproach to explore a mechanism by which stromal cells induce chemoresistance in cancer cells and subsequently identify a drug that can inhibit such interaction. Using a proteomic dataset containing quantitative data on secretome of stromalcells, we performed multivariate analyses and found that bone-marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) play the most protective role against chemotherapeutics.Pathway enrichment tests showed that secreted cytokines from BM-MSCs activated 4 signaling pathways including Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator oftranscription, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B, andmitogen-activated protein kinase, transforming growth factor-β in cancer cellscollectively leading to nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kB) transcription factor activation. Based on the data from integrated Library of Integrated Network-Based Cellular Signatures (iLINCs) program, wefound that among different drugs, valproic acid (VA) affected the expression of34 genes within the identified pathways that are activated by stromal cells. Our in vitro experiments confirmed that VA inhibits NF-kB activation in cancer cells.In addition, analyzing gene expression data in patients taking oral VA showedthat this drug decreased expression of antioxidant enzymes culminating inincreased oxidative stress in tumor cells. These results suggest that VA confinesthe protective role of stromal cells by inhibiting the adaptation mechanismstoward oxidative stress which is potentiated by stromal cells. Since VA is analready prescribed drug manifesting anticancer effects, this study provides amechanistic insight for combination of VA with chemotherapy in the clinicalsetting.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcb.27196 PMID: 29953653 