80. Cell Death Differ. 2018 Jun 28. doi: 10.1038/s41418-018-0147-y. [Epub ahead ofprint]Enhanced PAPSS2/VCAN sulfation axis is essential for Snail-mediated breast cancercell migration and metastasis.Zhang Y(1)(2), Zou X(1)(2), Qian W(1)(2), Weng X(3), Zhang L(4), Zhang L(4), WangS(5), Cao X(6), Ma L(6), Wei G(7), Wu Y(8), Hou Z(9)(10).Author information: (1)Hongqiao Institute of Medicine, Shanghai Tongren Hospital/Faculty of BasicMedicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory for Tumor Microenvironment and Inflammation,Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Cellular Biology, Shanghai JiaotongUniversity School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.(3)Cancer Institute, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Fudan University,Shanghai, China.(4)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.(5)Institute of Genome Engineered Animal Models for Human Disease, NationalCenter of Genetically Engineered Animal Models, College of Integrative Medicine, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China.(6)Key Laboratory of Computational Biology, CAS-MPG Partner Institute ofComputational Biology, Shanghai Institute for Biological Science, Chinese Academyof Sciences, Shanghai, China.(7)Key Laboratory of Computational Biology, CAS-MPG Partner Institute ofComputational Biology, Shanghai Institute for Biological Science, Chinese Academyof Sciences, Shanghai, China. weigang@picb.ac.cn.(8)Institute of Genome Engineered Animal Models for Human Disease, NationalCenter of Genetically Engineered Animal Models, College of Integrative Medicine, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, China. yingjiewu@dmu.edu.cn.(9)Hongqiao Institute of Medicine, Shanghai Tongren Hospital/Faculty of BasicMedicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.houzy@sjtu.edu.cn.(10)Shanghai Key Laboratory for Tumor Microenvironment and Inflammation,Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Cellular Biology, Shanghai JiaotongUniversity School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. houzy@sjtu.edu.cn.The zinc finger protein Snail is a master regulator of epithelial-mesenchymaltransition (EMT) and a strong inducer of tumor metastasis, yet the signalcascades triggered by Snail have not been completely revealed. Here, we reportthe discovery of the sulfation program that can be induced by Snail in breastcancer cells, and which plays an essential role in cell migration and metastasis.Specifically, Snail induces the expression of PAPSS2, a gene that encodes arate-limiting enzyme in sulfation pathway, and VCAN, a gene that encodes thechondroitin sulfate proteoglycan Versican in multiple breast cancer cells.Depletion of PAPSS2 in MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 cells results in reduced cellmigration, while overexpression of PAPSS2 promotes cell migration. Moreover,MDA-MB-231-shPAPSS2 cells display a significantly lower rate of lung metastasisand lower number of micrometastatic nodules in nude mice, and conversely,MDA-MB-231-PAPSS2 cells increase lung metastasis. Similarly, depletion of VCANdampens the cell migration activity induced by Snail or PAPSS2 in MCF 10A cells. Moreover, PAPSS inhibitor sodium chlorate effectively decreases cell migrationinduced by Snail and PAPSS2. More importantly, the expression of Snail, PAPSS2,and VCAN is positively correlated in breast cancer tissues. Together, thesefindings are important for understanding the genetic programs that control tumor metastasis and may identify previously undetected therapeutic targets to treatmetastatic disease.DOI: 10.1038/s41418-018-0147-y PMID: 29955124 