118. Psychooncology. 2018 Jun 27. doi: 10.1002/pon.4822. [Epub ahead of print]A randomized controlled trial of a supportive expressive group intervention forwomen with a family history of breast cancer.Esplen MJ(1), Leszcz M(2), Hunter J(2), Wong J(3), Leung YW(4), Toner B(5),Messner S(6), Glendon G(7), Stuckless N(8)(9), Butler C(10).Author information: (1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, PrincessMargaret Cancer Centre, Director, de Souza Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, Canada.(2)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, MountSinai Hospital, Toronto, Canada.(3)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, de SouzaInstitute, University Health Network, Toronto, Canada.(4)de Souza Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, Canada.(5)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto,Canada.(6)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Canada.(7)Ontario Cancer Genetics Network, Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute,University Health Network, Toronto, Canada.(8)York University, Toronto, Canada.(9)University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.(10)University Health Network, Toronto, Canada.OBJECTIVE: Women with a family history of breast cancer (BC) often overestimatetheir BC risk. Heightened psychological distress may interfere with riskcomprehension and screening adherence. The primary purpose of this study was totest the efficacy of a 12-week manual-based supportive-expressive (SE) groupintervention for this population.METHODS: Using a randomized control trial design, this study compared twointerventions: a standard risk-counseling arm (RC) compared with that plus SEgroup intervention. The primary study outcome was BC anxiety. Secondary outcomes included psychosocial functioning, risk comprehension, BC knowledge, andscreening behaviors.RESULTS: A total of 161 women with a family history of BC were randomized into SE(N = 108) or RC (N = 53). Participants in both study arms significantly improved on measures of BC anxiety, psychosocial functioning, risk comprehension, and BCknowledge, with no statistical difference between study arms. Benefits weresustained at 1 year. BC screening rates were high in both arms at baseline andfollow-up.CONCLUSIONS: SE group therapy as an added intervention to the risk counseling waswell-received, however, did not demonstrate superiority to RC alone. Futurestudies on treatment matching are needed to further our understanding ofinterventions that can support women with a family history of BC to work through residual issues, including loss and grief.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4822 PMID: 29952047 