71. Endocrinology. 2018 Aug 1;159(8):3069-3080. doi: 10.1210/en.2018-00379.Leptin Regulation of Cancer Stem Cells in Breast and Gynecologic Cancer.Crean-Tate KK(1), Reizes O(2)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Women's Health Institute, ClevelandClinic, Cleveland, Ohio.(2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Lerner Research Institute,Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine,Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio.(4)Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Cleveland, Ohio.It is well established that obesity increases the incidence and worsens theprognosis of women's cancer. For breast cancer, women with obesity exhibit morethan a twofold increase in the odds of being diagnosed with cancer, with agreater risk of advanced stage at diagnosis, and ≤40% greater risk of recurrence and death than their normal-weight counterparts. These findings are similar ingynecologic cancers, where women who are obese with a body mass index (BMI) >40kg/m2 have up to six times greater risk of developing endometrial cancer and a9.2% increase in mortality with every 10% increase in BMI. Likewise, patientswith obesity exhibit a twofold higher risk of premenopausal ovarian cancer, andpatients who are obese with advanced stage ovarian cancer have shown a shortertime to recurrence and poorer overall survival. Obesity is accompanied by changesin expression of adipose factors that act on local tissues and systemically. Onceobesity was recognized as a factor in cancer incidence and progression, theadipose cytokine (adipokine) leptin became the focus of intense investigation as a putative link, with nearly 3000 publications on the topic. Leptin has beenshown to increase cell proliferation, inhibit apoptosis, promote angiogenesis,and increase therapeutic resistance. These characteristics are associated with a subset of cells in both liquid and solid tumors known as cancer stem cells(CSCs), or tumor initiating cells. We will review the literature discussingleptin's role in breast and gynecologic cancer, focusing on its role in CSCs, andconsider goals for targeting future therapy in this arena to disrupt tumorinitiation and progression in women's cancer.DOI: 10.1210/en.2018-00379 PMID: 29955847 