11. Oncologist. 2018 Jun 29. pii: theoncologist.2017-0409. doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0409. [Epub ahead of print]Fear of Mastectomy Associated with Delayed Breast Cancer Presentation AmongGhanaian Women.Martei YM(1), Vanderpuye V(2), Jones BA(3).Author information: (1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,Pennsylvania, USA yehoda.martei@uphs.upenn.edu.(2)National Center for Radiotherapy and Nuclear Medicine, Korle Bu TeachingHospital, Accra, Ghana.(3)Yale School of Public Health, Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, New Haven,Connecticut, USA.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality among womenglobally. Most women in Ghana present with advanced stage disease. The aim ofthis study is to characterize sociocultural factors associated with delayedpresentation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Qualitative study (grounded theory, constant comparativemethod) using individual in-depth interviews with breast cancer patients seen at the Korle Bu Teaching Hospital in Accra, Ghana. Interviews were conducted inEnglish and three local languages. We achieved theoretical saturation with 31participants.RESULTS: The mean length of delay reported by patients was approximately 1 year. Five recurrent themes were related to delayed presentation: (a) Women with aconfirmed breast cancer diagnosis delay treatment because of the fear ofmastectomy due to self and societal stigma; (b) role of the church as a socialsupport system given the societal stigma associated with breast cancer; (c) studyparticipants expressed some awareness of breast cancer, but with varying depthsof breast cancer knowledge encompassing both myths and misconceptions aboutbreast cancer; (d) most patients present late because they do not associate a"painless" breast lump with possible breast malignancy; and (e) delayedpresentation linked to significant financial burden associated with breast cancertreatment.CONCLUSION: Despite current efforts to increase breast cancer awareness, the fearof mastectomy remains one of the main reasons for delayed presentation.Successful breast cancer education programs will need to be framed within thebroader sociocultural dimensions of femininity that address some of the stigmaassociated with mastectomy reported in the Ghanaian context.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Most women in Ghana present with advanced-stagedisease. The aim of this study was to characterize sociocultural factorsassociated with delayed presentation. Although several quantitative studies have been conducted on delays in presentation in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), this study is one of the few to identify fear of mastectomy as a reason for delayedpresentation. Anecdotal data from current clinical experiences in SSA suggestthat this is still an issue that has not been adequately reported and addressedin most SSA countries. The research results presented here will hopefully guidehealth providers and national organizations in designing breast cancer education programs in Ghana and other parts of SSA.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0409 PMID: 29959283 