14. Clin Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 29. pii: clincanres.3697.2017. doi:10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-3697. [Epub ahead of print]Dual Src and MEK inhibition decreases ovarian cancer growth and targets tumorinitiating stem-like cells.Simpkins F(1), Jang K(2), Yoon H(2), Hew K(3), Kim M(2), Azzam DJ(4), Sun J(2),Zhao D(2), Ince TA(5), Liu W(6), Guo W(7), Wei Z(8), Zhang G(9), Mills GB(10),Slingerland JM(11).Author information: (1)OB-GYN, University of Pennsylvania.(2)Braman Family Breast Cancer Institute at Sylvester, University of Miami MillerSchool of Medicine.(3)Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Miami.(4)Human and Molecular Genetics, Florida International University.(5)Pathology, Braman Family Breast Cancer Institute, University of Miami MillerSchool of Medicine.(6)Bioinformatics & Comp Biology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.(7)MD Anderson Cancer Center.(8)Department of Computer Science, New Jersey Institute of Technology.(9)Melanoma Research Center and Molecular and Cellular Oncogenesis Program, TheWistar Institute.(10)Departments of Systems Biology, Oregon Health & Science University.(11)Braman Family Breast Cancer Institute at Sylvester, University of MiamiMiller School of Medicine jslingerland@med.miami.edu.PURPOSE: Rational targeted therapies are needed for treatment of ovarian cancers.Signaling kinases, Src and MAPK, are activated in high grade serous ovariancancer (HGSOC). Here, we tested the frequency of activation of both kinases inHGSOC and the therapeutic potential of dual kinase inhibition.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: MEK and Src activation was assayed in primary HGSOC from TheCancer Genome Atlas (TGGA). Effects of dual kinase inhibition were assayed oncell-cycle, apoptosis, gene and proteomic analysis, cancer stem cells andxenografts.RESULTS: Both Src and MAPK are co-activated in 31% of HGSOC, and this associates with worse overall survival on multivariate analysis. Frequent dual kinaseactivation in HGSOC led us to assay the efficacy of combined Src and MEKinhibition. Treatment of established lines and primary ovarian cancer cultureswith Src and MEK inhibitors, saracatinib and selumetinib, respectively, showedtarget kinase inhibition and synergistic induction of apoptosis and cell cyclearrest in vitro and tumor inhibition in xenografts. Gene expression and proteomicanalysis confirmed cell-cycle inhibition and autophagy. Dual therapy alsopotently inhibited tumor-initiating cells. Src and MAPK were both activated intumor-initiating populations. Combination treatment followed by drug washout,decreased sphere formation and ALDH1+cells. In vivo, tumors dissociated afterdual therapy showed a marked decrease in ALDH1 staining, sphere formation andloss of tumor-initiating cells upon serial xenografting.CONCLUSIONS: Selumetinib added to saracatinib overcomes EGFR/HER2/ERBB2-mediated bypass activation of MEK/MAPK observed with saracatinib alone and targetstumor-initiating OVCA populations, supporting further evaluation of combinedSrc-MEK inhibition in clinical trials.Copyright ©2018, American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-3697 PMID: 29959144 