89. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2018 Jun 28;16(1):132. doi: 10.1186/s12955-018-0958-z.Psychometric evaluation of the Persian version of the Lymphedema Life ImpactScale (LLIS, version 1) in breast cancer patients.Haghighat S(1), Montazeri A(2), Zayeri F(3), Ebrahimi M(4), Weiss J(5).Author information: (1)Quality of Life Department, Breast Cancer Research Center, Motamed CancerInstitute, ACECR, Tehran, Iran. Sha_haghighat@yahoo.com.(2)Health Metrics Research Center, Institute for Health Sciences Research, ACECR,Tehran, Iran.(3)Proteomics Research Center and Department of Biostatistics, Faculty ofParamedical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,Iran.(4)Quality of Life Department, Breast Cancer Research Center, Motamed CancerInstitute, ACECR, Tehran, Iran.(5)Lymphedema Clinic, Cox Health Outpatient Rehabilitation, Springfield,Missouri, USA.BACKGROUND: Despite the high prevalence of lymphedema in Iranian breast cancerpatients, there is no valid instrument for measuring quality of life in thispopulation. The aim of this study was to assess reliability and validity of thePersian version of Lymphedema Life Impact Scale (LLIS) in breast cancer patients.METHODS: Forward-backward procedure was applied to translate The LLIS fromEnglish into Persian. The LLIS is an 18-item measure of physical, psychosocial,and functional impairments caused by lymphedema. Experts and patients assessedcontent and face validity, respectively. Discriminant validity was evaluated bycomparing breast cancer patients with and without lymphedema. Convergent validitywas assessed by comparing LLIS score with SF-36 (functional component) and theEORTC-QLQ-C30 (functional component). The construct validity also was evaluatedusing confirmatory and exploratory factor analyses. Internal consistency wasevaluated by Cronbach's alpha coefficient. Stability was assessed by test-retest analysis over a one-week interval in 13 patients.RESULTS: In all 446 breast cancer patients were entered into the study. Thecontent and face validity of Persian version of LLIS were acceptable and minorcorrections were applied in final version. The questionnaire differentiated well in patients' with and without lymphedema and not lending support to itsdiscriminant validity. Confirmatory factor analysis showed a good fit for thedata. Cronbach's alpha coefficient in physical, psychosocial and functionalsubscales were 0.873, 0.854 and 0.884 respectively. Intra-class correlationcoefficient of total score of the LLIS was 0.96.CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study suggest a first indication thatreliability and validity of the Persian version of LLIS in patients with breastcancer induced lymphedema was good. Application of this instrument foridentifying problems of patients with upper extremity lymphedema may be helpfulin designing interventions to improve quality of life.DOI: 10.1186/s12955-018-0958-z PMCID: PMC6025716PMID: 29954381 