120. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Jun 27. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4829-4. [Epub aheadof print]The effect of participation in neoadjuvant clinical trials on outcomes inpatients with early breast cancer.Brennan M(1), Gass P(2), Häberle L(2)(3), Wang D(4), Hartmann A(5), Lux MP(2),Beckmann MW(2), Untch M(6), Fasching PA(2).Author information: (1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, David GeffenSchool of Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA,USA. mbrennan@mednet.ucla.edu.(2)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Erlangen,Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Friedrich-Alexander-UniversityErlangen-EMN, Erlangen, Germany.(3)Biostatistics Unit, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, UniversityHospital Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany.(4)School of Public Heath, Biostatistics Department, University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(5)Institute of Pathology, University Hospital Erlangen, Comprehensive CancerCenter Erlangen-EMN, Friedrich- Alexander-University Erlangen-EMN, Erlangen,Germany.(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Helios Klinikum Berlin-Buch, Berlin, Germany.BACKGROUND: Clinical trials can offer novel and more advanced and/or noveltreatments to cancer patients in advance of them being approved and available forall patients. While several studies have examined the effect of clinical trialparticipation on prognosis, there has been no clear conclusion from thesestudies. Therefore, we chose to test the influence of trial participation onpathological complete response (pCR) and mastectomy rates after neoadjuvantchemotherapy.METHODS: In this retrospective study, all patients treated with neoadjuvantchemotherapy from 2001 to 2014 were selected. A total of 1038 patients withcomplete treatment, patient, and tumor characteristics were included. A total of 260 of those were treated in clinical trials. We examined whether studyparticipation status in addition to commonly known predictors for pCR improvesprediction of pCR. Similar analyses were conducted for the mastectomy rateoutcome measure. Finally, survival analyses were also conducted as part of anexploratory analysis.RESULTS: Study participation was an independent predictor of pCR in addition tocommonly known predictors. Adjusted odds ratio (OR) for trial participants versusnon-participants was 1.53 (95% CI 1.03-2.28). Additionally, study participationimproved the prediction of mastectomy risk. The adjusted OR for trialparticipants versus non-participants was 0.62 (95% CI 0.42-0.90).Subgroup-specific differences concerning the impact of study participation could not be shown for either pCR or mastectomy rate. Survival comparisons could not beconducted due to large differences in follow-up data in patients participating inclinical trials versus those who did not participate; however, pCR was apredictor of prognosis in both groups.CONCLUSION: Patients taking part in neoadjuvant chemotherapy clinical trials havea higher pCR rate and a lower mastectomy risk than patients not participating in clinical trials for their cancer care. This finding is a supporting factor fortrial participation in neoadjuvant chemotherapy trials.DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4829-4 PMID: 29951969 