70. Transl Behav Med. 2018 Jun 28. doi: 10.1093/tbm/iby065. [Epub ahead of print]Web-based versus in-person methods for training lay community health advisors to implement health promotion workshops: participant outcomes from acluster-randomized trial.Holt CL(1), Tagai EK(1), Santos SLZ(1), Scheirer MA(2), Bowie J(3), Haider M(4), Slade J(5).Author information: (1)Department of Behavioral and Community Health, School of Public Health,University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA.(2)Scheirer Consulting, Princeton, NJ, USA.(3)Department of Health, Behavior and Society, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.(4)School of Public Health, Institute for Applied Environmental Health,University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA.(5)Community Ministry of Prince George's County, Upper Marlboro, MD, USA.Project HEAL (Health through Early Awareness and Learning) is an implementationtrial that compared two methods of training lay peer community health advisors(CHAs)-in-person ("Traditional") versus web-based ("Technology")-to conduct aseries of three evidence-based cancer educational workshops in African Americanchurches. This analysis reports on participant outcomes from Project HEAL.Fifteen churches were randomized to the two CHA training methods and theintervention impact was examined over 24 months. This study was conducted inPrince George's County, MD, and enrolled 375 church members age 40-75.Participants reported on knowledge and screening behaviors for breast, prostate, and colorectal cancer. Overall, cancer knowledge in all areas increased duringthe study period (p < .001). There were significant increases in digital rectalexam (p < .05), fecal occult blood test (p < .001), and colonoscopy (p < .01) at 24 months; however, this did not differ by study group. Mammography maintenance(56% overall) was evidenced by women reporting multiple mammograms within thestudy period. Participants attending all three workshops were more likely toreport a fecal occult blood test or colonoscopy at 24 months (p < .05) than thosewho attended only one. These findings suggest that lay individuals can receiveweb-based training to successfully implement an evidence-based health promotionintervention that results in participant-level outcomes comparable with (a)people trained using the traditional classroom method and (b) previous efficacytrials. Findings have implications for resources and use of technology toincrease widespread dissemination of evidence-based health promotioninterventions through training lay persons in community settings.DOI: 10.1093/tbm/iby065 PMID: 29955889 