68. Support Care Cancer. 2018 Jun 29. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4329-4. [Epub ahead of print]Ambivalence over emotional expression and physical functioning and limitations:mediating and moderating effects of PTSD symptoms and acculturation among Chinesebreast cancer survivors.Wu IHC(1), McNeill LH(2), Lu Q(2)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Health Disparities Research, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston,TX, 77030, USA. ihwu@mdanderson.org.(2)Department of Health Disparities Research, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston,TX, 77030, USA.(3)Department of Psychology, University of Houston, Houston, TX, 77004, USA.OBJECTIVE: The psychosocial correlates of physical functioning and limitationsare not well-known among Chinese breast cancer survivors. Previous researchsuggests a link between ambivalence over emotional expression (AEE) and physical functioning. The current study built upon this research by examiningpost-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) as a mechanism. Further, we also examinedthe moderating effects of mainstream cultural orientation. To this end, we testedstudy hypotheses using moderated mediation models.METHODS: Participants were 96 Chinese-speaking breast cancer survivors in theUSA. Participants were diagnosed within the past five years with stages 0-IIIbreast cancer. Participants completed questionnaires related to AEE, PTSS, SF-36 physical functioning, and role limitations due to physical health subscales, and acculturation.RESULTS: Results from moderated mediation models provided support for studyhypotheses. AEE was positively related to overall PTSS and its three subscales(i.e., re-experiencing symptoms, avoidance, and arousal). Further, PTSS and thethree subscales were negatively related to physical functioning and positivelyrelated to role limitations due to physical health. The indirect effects of AEEon physical functioning and role limitations due to physical health through PTSS and the three subscales were significant. Moderated mediation models showed that the indirect effects of AEE on physical functioning through PTSS and there-experiencing subscale were stronger for those high, compared to low, inmainstream culture orientation.CONCLUSION: Those with high AEE experience had worse physical functioning andgreater role limitations due to increased PTSS. However, the indirect effectswere stronger for those who endorse greater mainstream culture. Implications for results suggest that interventions aimed at addressing AEE and PTSS may helpalleviate physical health problems especially those high in mainstream cultureorientation.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4329-4 PMID: 29955975 