57. Cancer Med. 2018 Jul 2. doi: 10.1002/cam4.1629. [Epub ahead of print]Creating prognostic systems for cancer patients: A demonstration using breastcancer.Hueman MT(1), Wang H(2), Yang CQ(3), Sheng L(4), Henson DE(5), Schwartz AM(6)(7),Chen D(5).Author information: (1)Department of Surgical Oncology, John P. Murtha Cancer Center, Walter ReedNational Military Medical Center, Bethesda, MD, USA.(2)Department of Biostatistics, The George Washington University, Washington, DC,USA.(3)Department of Surgery, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Bethesda,MD, USA.(4)Department of Mathematics, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(5)Department of Preventive Medicine & Biostatistics, F. Edward Hébert School of Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD,USA.(6)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine and Health Sciences, The GeorgeWashington University, Washington, DC, USA.(7)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, Milken Institute Schoolof Public Health, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.Integrating additional prognostic factors into the tumor, lymph node, metastasis staging system improves the relative stratification of cancer patients andenhances the accuracy in planning their treatment options and predicting clinicaloutcomes. We describe a novel approach to build prognostic systems for cancerpatients that can admit any number of prognostic factors. In the approach, anunsupervised learning algorithm was used to create dendrograms and the C-indexwas used to cut dendrograms to generate prognostic groups. Breast cancer datafrom the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program of the NationalCancer Institute were used for demonstration. Two relative prognostic systemswere created for breast cancer. One system (7 prognostic groups withC-index = 0.7295) was based on tumor size, regional lymph nodes, and no distantmetastasis. The other system (7 prognostic groups with C-index = 0.7458) wasbased on tumor size, regional lymph nodes, no distant metastasis, grade, estrogenreceptor, progesterone receptor, and age. The dendrograms showed a relationshipbetween survival and prognostic factors. The proposed approach is able to create prognostic systems that have a good accuracy in survival prediction and provide amanageable number of prognostic groups. The prognostic systems have the potentialto permit a thorough database analysis of all information relevant todecision-making in patient management and prognosis.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1629 PMID: 29968970 