91. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Jun 28;106:247-254. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.126. [Epub ahead of print]Conditioned medium from stimulated macrophages inhibits growth but induces aninflammatory phenotype in breast cancer cells.Song W(1), Thakor P(2), Vesey DA(3), Gobe GC(4), Morais C(5).Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Xuzhou MedicalUniversity, Xuzhou, China; Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland,Translational Research Institute, Woolloongabba, Australia. Electronic address:wenzhesong@163.com.(2)Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland, Translational ResearchInstitute, Woolloongabba, Australia; Department of Biosciences, Sardar PatelUniversity, Vallabhvidyanagar, Gujarat, India. Electronic address:parth7218@gmail.com.(3)Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland, Translational ResearchInstitute, Woolloongabba, Australia; Department of Nephrology, Princess AlexandraHospital, Woolloongabba, Brisbane, Australia. Electronic address:david.vesey@health.qld.gov.au.(4)Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland, Translational ResearchInstitute, Woolloongabba, Australia; NHMRC Centre of Research Excellence, Centre for Chronic Disease, University of Queensland, Herston, Brisbane, Australia;School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.Electronic address: g.gobe@uq.edu.au.(5)Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland, Translational ResearchInstitute, Woolloongabba, Australia. Electronic address: c.morais@uq.edu.au.Disparate roles exist for tumor-associated macrophages in breast cancer growthand progression. The aim of this study was to explore the influence of inducedmacrophages on the growth of breast cancer cells. THP-1 monocytes weredifferentiated to macrophages using phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate. The effectof the medium from THP-1 monocytes or macrophage-conditioned medium (MφCM) onMCF-7 (estrogen receptor and progesterone-positive positive) and MDA-MB-231 (MB; triple-negative) breast cancer cells was determined at 24 h, 48 h and 72 h.Assays were conducted for cell viability, apoptosis, proliferation and cellphenotype, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) forexpression of associated genes. MφCM inhibited proliferation of MCF-7 and MBcells in a time-dependent manner and, in particular, decreased viability of MCF-7cells. MφCM induced a markedly vacuolated phenotype in MCF-7 increased apoptosis in MCF-7 cells, but correlative changes in Bcl-2 or Bax were absent. A multifold and significant reduction in anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 in MB cells was not matched by increased apoptosis. The cell cycle inhibitor CDKN1A was increased in both celllines, but PCNA decreased only in MB cells. Senescence-associated galactosidasebeta-1 (GLB1) mRNA was decreased in MCF-7 cells (48 and 72 h) but increased in MBcells (72 h). Increased expression of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-8 was seen inboth cell lines, and increased tumor necrosis factor- α was seen at 24 h for MBand 72 h for MCF-7 indicating increased inflammatory responses of the cancercells. The two breast cancer celllines had different responses to MφCM, mainlyinvolving inhibition rather than stimulation of growth of the cells, stimulation of senescence (MB cells) and increased inflammatory cytokine expression. Theestrogen and progesterone receptor status of the cell lines may determine theirresponse to MφCM. The function of the inflammatory cytokines in breast cancergrowth remains to be identified.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.126 PMID: 29966967 