110. Mol Carcinog. 2018 Jul 2. doi: 10.1002/mc.22869. [Epub ahead of print]Knockout of human arylamine N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) in MDA-MB-231 breastcancer cells leads to increased reserve capacity, maximum mitochondrial capacity,and glycolytic reserve capacity.Carlisle SM(1), Trainor PJ(2), Doll MA(1), Stepp MW(1), Klinge CM(3), Hein DW(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, Kentucky.(2)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Louisville School ofMedicine, Louisville, Kentucky.(3)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of LouisvilleSchool of Medicine, Louisville, Kentucky.Human arylamine N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) is a phase II xenobioticmetabolizing enzyme found in almost all tissues. NAT1 can also hydrolyzeacetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA) in the absence of an arylamine substrate.Expression of NAT1 varies between individuals and is elevated in several cancers including estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancers. To date, however, the exact mechanism by which NAT1 expression affects mitochondrial bioenergetics inbreast cancer cells has not been described. To further evaluate the role of NAT1 in energy metabolism MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells with parental, increased, andknockout levels of NAT1 activity were compared for bioenergetics profile. Basaloxygen consumption rate (OCR) and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) weremeasured followed by programmed sequential injection of Oligomycin (ATP synthase inhibitor), FCCP (ETC uncoupler), Antimycin A (Complex III inhibitor), andRotenone (Complex I inhibitor) to evaluate mitochondrial bioenergetics. Compared to the cell lines with parental NAT1 activity, NAT1 knockout MDA-MB-231 celllines exhibited significant differences in bioenergetics profile, while thosewith increased NAT1 did not. Significant increases in reserve capacity, maximummitochondrial capacity, and glycolytic reserve capacity were observed in NAT1knockout MDA-MB-231 cell lines compared to those with parental and increased NAT1activity. These data indicate that NAT1 knockout in MDA-MB-231 breast cancercells may enhance adaptation to stress by increasing plasticity in response toenergy demand.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/mc.22869 PMID: 29964355 