70. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 2. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6615-2. [Epub ahead of print]Timing and Delays in Breast Cancer Evaluation and Treatment.Bleicher RJ(1).Author information: (1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Room C-308, Fox Chase Cancer Center,Philadelphia, PA, USA. richard.bleicher@fccc.edu.BACKGROUND: Even small delays in the treatment of breast cancer are a frequently expressed concern of patients. Knowledge about this subject is important forclinicians to counsel patients appropriately and realistically, while alsooptimizing care. Although data and quality measures regarding time tochemotherapy and radiotherapy have been present for some time, data regardingsurgical care are more recent and no standard exists. This review was written to discuss our current knowledge about the relationship of treatment times tooutcomes.METHODS: The published medical literature addressing delays and optimal times to treatment was reviewed in the context of our current time-dependent standards forchemotherapy and radiotherapy. The surgical literature and the lack of atime-dependent surgical standard also were discussed, suggesting a possiblestandard.RESULTS: Risk factors for delay are numerous, and tumor doubling times are bothdifficult to determine and unhelpful to assess the impact of longer treatmenttimes on outcomes. Evaluation components also have a time cost and areinextricable from the patient's workup. Although the published literature haslack of uniformity, optimal times to each modality are strongly suggested byemerging data, supporting the current quality measures. Times to surgery,chemotherapy, and radiotherapy all have a measurable impact on outcomes,including disease-free survival, disease-specific survival, and overall survival.CONCLUSIONS: Delays have less of an impact than often thought but have ameasurable impact on outcomes. Optimal times from diagnosis are < 90 days forsurgery, < 120 days for chemotherapy, and, where chemotherapy is administered,< 365 days for radiotherapy.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6615-2 PMID: 29968031 