164. Yale J Biol Med. 2018 Jun 28;91(2):105-127. eCollection 2018 Jun.Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Diet and Breast Cancer Risk.Donovan MG(1), Selmin OI(1)(2), Romagnolo DF(1)(2).Author information: (1)The University of Arizona Cancer Center, The University of Arizona, Tucson,AZ.(2)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ.Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer and leading cause of cancermortality among women worldwide. However, the majority of breast malignancies areof sporadic etiology. Therefore, identifying risk-mitigating factors maysignificantly decrease the burden of breast cancer. Diet can have both apredisposing and protective role in breast tumorigenesis. However, establishingefficacy of dietary constituents for cancer prevention has been limited bysuboptimal dietary assessment. There is a need to acquire new experimentalevidence that can be used to discriminate beneficial from harmful dietaryconstituents. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activatedtranscription factor that is recognized as the mediator of halogenated andpolycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon toxicities. Importantly, evidence points to abreast tumor-promoting role for the AhR. Preclinical and clinical studies suggestthat the AhR is overexpressed in advanced and triple negative breast cancers.Several dietary constituents, namely flavonoid compounds, have demonstratedinhibitory effects on AhR activation. Given this background, in this paper weelaborate on the working hypothesis that a diet rich in AhR food agonists favors breast tumor development, whereas a diet rich in AhR food antagonists isprotective. As an initial approach to developing an AhR diet hypothesis, weconducted a review of published studies reporting on the association betweenintake of AhR inhibitory foods and risk of breast cancer. To assist the readerwith interpretation of the concepts leading to the AhR diet hypothesis, we havepreceded this review with an overview of AhR biology and its role in breastcancer development.PMCID: PMC6020732PMID: 29962921 