Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Han W. Tun received aresearch grant from Mundipharma-EDO GmbH. Thomas Mehrling is an employee ofMundipharma-EDO GmbH.128. Oncotarget. 2018 Jun 15;9(46):28141-28154. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25582.eCollection 2018 Jun 15.Small non-coding RNA landscape is modified by GPAT2 silencing in MDA-MB-231cells.Lacunza E(#)(1), Montanaro MA(#)(2), Salvati A(3), Memoli D(3), Rizzo F(3)(4),Henning MF(2), Quiroga IY(2), Guillou H(5), Abba MC(1), Gonzalez-Baro MDR(2),Weisz A(3)(4), Pellon-Maison M(2).Author information: (1)Centro de Investigaciones Inmunológicas Básicas y Aplicadas, Facultad deCiencias Médicas, Universidad Nacional de La Plata, La Plata, Argentina.(2)Instituto de Investigaciones Bioquímicas de La Plata, Consejo Nacional deInvestigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Universidad Nacional de LaPlata, La Plata, Argentina.(3)Laboratory of Molecular Medicine and Genomics, Department of Medicine, Surgeryand Dentistry "Scuola Medica Salernitana", University of Salerno, Baronissi, SA, Italy.(4)Genomix4Life, Department of Medicine, Surgery and Dentistry "Schola MedicaSalernitana", University of Salerno, Baronissi, SA, Italy.(5)Toxalim, Université de Toulouse, INRA, ENVT, INP-Purpan, UPS, Toulouse,France.(#)Contributed equallyGlycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase-2 is a member of "cancer-testis gene"family. Initially linked to lipid metabolism, this gene has been recently foundinvolved also in PIWI-interacting RNAs biogenesis in germline stem cells. Toinvestigate its role in piRNA metabolism in cancer, the gene was silenced inMDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and small RNA sequencing was applied.PIWI-interacting RNAs and tRNA-derived fragments expression profiles showedchanges following GPAT2 silencing. Interestingly, a marked shift in lengthdistribution for both small RNAs was detected in GPAT2-silenced cells. Mostdownregulated PIWI-interacting RNAs are single copy in the genome, intragenic,hosted in snoRNAs and previously found to be upregulated in cancer cells.Putative targets of these PIWI-interacting RNAs are linked to lipid metabolism.Downregulated tRNA derived fragments derived from, so-called 'differentiationtRNAs', whereas upregulated ones derived from proliferation-linked tRNAs. miRNAamounts decrease after Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase-2 silencing andfunctional enrichment analysis of deregulated miRNA putative targets point tomitochondrial biogenesis, IGF1R signaling and oxidative metabolism of lipids and lipoproteins. In addition, miRNAs known to be overexpressed in breast cancertumors with poor prognosis where found downregulated in GPAT2-silenced cells. In conclusion, GPAT2 silencing quantitatively and qualitatively affects thepopulation of PIWI-interacting RNAs, tRNA derived fragments and miRNAs which, in combination, result in a more differentiated cancer cell phenotype.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25582 PMCID: PMC6021339PMID: 29963267 