120. Asia Pac J Oncol Nurs. 2018 Jul-Sep;5(3):296-306. doi: 10.4103/apjon.apjon_16_18.Cancer-Related Cognitive Impairment in Breast Cancer Patients: Influences ofPsychological Variables.Yang Y(1), Hendrix CC(1).Author information: (1)Division of Health Systems and Analytics, School of Nursing, Duke University, Geriatric Research, Education and Clinical Center, Durham Veterans AffairsMedical Center, Durham, NC, USA.Approximately 3.1 million women in the US are living with breast cancer and up to75% of these women experience cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI). CRCI isdescribed as impairments in memory, verbal fluency, thought processes, andattention span. Despite the high prevalence of breast cancer, only a few studies have been published on CRCI and most of these studies primarily focused on itspathophysiological mechanism. However, recent evidence has demonstrated thatbreast cancer patients with CRCI are more likely to have high level ofpsychologic distress, suggesting a possible relationship between CRCI andpsychologic distress. This review aims to examine existing literature thatdescribes CRCI in relation to psychological distress among breast cancerpatients. One thousand four hundred and ninety-eight articles were searched usingPubMed, CINAHL, and PsycINFO. Thirteen studies met inclusion criteria, and onearticle was additionally pulled from article reference lists. Of these19 studies,psychologic distress has been operationalized in varied ways such as anxiety (n =3), depression (n = 2), both anxiety and depression (n = 4), stress (n = 4),worry (n = 2), mental fatigue (n = 1), and undefined psychological distress (n = 2). Except for six studies designed as a longitudinal study, the rest of studies used a cross-sectional design. Twelve studies used both subjective and objective measures to assess cognitive function. We found that the patients with highpsychological distress displayed lower performance on cognitive function tests.Our finding indicates that psychological variables contributed to CRCI thatbreast cancer patients experienced. Areas for further investigation are proposed that will advance the care of breast cancer patients with CRCI.DOI: 10.4103/apjon.apjon_16_18 PMCID: PMC5996591PMID: 29963592 