45. Histopathology. 2018 Jul 3. doi: 10.1111/his.13701. [Epub ahead of print]Molecular insights into paediatric breast fibroepithelial tumours.Tay TKY(1), Guan P(2), Loke BN(1), Md Nasir ND(1), Rajasegaran V(2), Thike AA(1),Lian D(3), Chang KTE(3), Teh BT(2), Ng CCY(2), Tan PH(4).Author information: (1)Department of Anatomical Pathology, Singapore General Hospital.(2)Laboratory of Cancer Epigenome, National Cancer Centre, Singapore.(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, KK Women's and Children'sHospital.(4)Division of Pathology, Singapore General Hospital.AIM: This study aims to examine the molecular genetics of paediatric breastfibroepithelial tumours through targeted sequencing of 50 genes.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissue of fibroepithelialtumours diagnosed in a cohort of patients aged 18 years and below were subjected to next generation sequencing using the Haloplex Target Enrichment System(Agilent).RESULTS: Twenty-five conventional and seventeen juvenile fibroadenomas werestudied, with MED12 mutations found in 53.8% and 35% of the tumours respectively.There was also one benign fibroepithelial neoplasm with hybrid features ofjuvenile papillomatosis and infarcted benign phyllodes tumour-like areas. Mosttumours did not have mutations in well-known cancer driver genes, none harboured TERT promoter mutations while 25.6% (11/43) showed no mutations. Metachronous andsynchronous tumours were found to have mutational heterogeneity with somecontaining mutations in MED12, other genes or no mutations detected at all. Four out of 8 giant fibroadenomas (size 5cm or larger) had no mutations detected,suggesting that there are other molecular mechanisms driving their growth.Tumours with MED12 mutations incidentally had a significantly higher stromalmitotic count compared with those without.CONCLUSION: While paediatric fibroepithelial lesions can have cellular stromapotentially raising concern for phyllodes tumour, their lack of TERT promoter andcancer driver mutations is reassuring. The absence of mutations in a significant proportion of tumours especially the giant fibroadenomas warrants investigationof pathogenetic mechanisms beyond the 50 genes. This article is protected bycopyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1111/his.13701 PMID: 29969836 