197. Int J Nurs Stud. 2018 May 26;86:36-43. doi: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2018.05.014. [Epubahead of print]A scoping review of trials of interventions led or delivered by cancer nurses.Charalambous A(1), Wells M(2), Campbell P(3), Torrens C(4), Östlund U(5),Oldenmenger W(6), Patiraki E(7), Sharp L(8), Nohavova I(9), Domenech-ClimentN(10), Eicher M(11), Farrell C(12), Larsson M(13), Olsson C(14), Simpson M(15),Wiseman T(16), Kelly D(17).Author information: (1)University of Technology, Cyprus and DOCENT; Department of Nursing Studies,University of Turku, Finland. Electronic address: andreas.charalambous@cut.ac.cy.(2)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK. Electronic address:mary.wells5@nhs.net.(3)Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professions Research Unit (NMAHP RU),Glasgow Caledonian University, UK. Electronic address:pauline.campbell@gcu.ac.uk.(4)Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professions Research Unit (NMAHP RU),Glasgow Caledonian University, UK. Electronic address: Claire.Torrens@gcu.ac.uk.(5)Uppsala University/Region Gävleborg, Centre for Research & Development,Sweden. Electronic address: ulrika.ostlund@lnu.se.(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, Rotterdam, TheNetherlands. Electronic address: w.h.oldenmenger@erasmusmc.nl.(7)Nursing Faculty, School of Health Sciences, National and KapodistrianUniversity of Athens, Greece. Electronic address: epatiraki@nurs.uoa.gr.(8)Regional Cancer Centre, Stockholm-Gotland, Stockholm, Sweden; KarolinskaInstitute, Department of Learning Informatics, Management and Ethics, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: lena.sharp@sll.se.(9)Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, First Faculty of Medicine, CharlesUniversity in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic. Electronic address:nohiveta@gmail.com.(10)Alicante University, Spain. Electronic address: nuria.domenech@ua.es.(11)Institute for Higher Education and Research in Healthcare and Nurse Research Consultant Department of Oncology, Lausanne University Hospital and University ofLausanne, Switzerland. Electronic address: manuela.eicher@chuv.ch.(12)Division of Nursing, Midwifery & Social Work, School of Health Sciences,Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, UK.Electronic address: carole.farrell@manchester.ac.uk.(13)Faculty of Health, Science and Technology, Department of Health Sciences,Karlstad University, Sweden. Electronic address: maria.larsson@kau.se.(14)Faculty of Health, Science and Technology, Department of Health Sciences,Karlstad University, Sweden. Electronic address: cecilia.olsson@kau.se.(15)NHS Lanarkshire, Scotland, UK. Electronic address:Mhairi.Simpson@lanarkshire.scot.nhs.uk.(16)Clinical Chair of Applied Health in Cancer Care, Strategic Lead for HealthService Research, The Royal Marsden, NHS Foundation Trust, University ofSouthampton, UK. Electronic address: theresa.wiseman@rmh.nhs.uk.(17)Royal College of Nursing Chair of Nursing Research, Cardiff University,Wales, UK. Electronic address: KellyDM@cardiff.ac.uk.BACKGROUND: Advances in research and technology coupled with an increased cancer incidence and prevalence have resulted in significant expansion of cancer nurserole, in order to meet the growing demands and expectations of people affected bycancer (PABC). Cancer nurses are also tasked with delivering an increasing numberof complex interventions as a result of ongoing clinical trials in cancerresearch. However much of this innovation is undocumented, and we have littleinsight about the nature of novel interventions currently being designed ordelivered by cancer nurses.OBJECTIVES: To identify and synthesise the available evidence from clinicaltrials on interventions delivered or facilitated by cancer nurses.DATA SOURCES AND REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of randomised controlledtrials (RCT), quasi-RCTs and controlled before and after studies (CBA) of cancer nursing interventions aimed at improving the experience and outcomes of PABC. Tenelectronic databases (CENTRAL, MEDLINE, AMED, CINAHL, EMBASE, Epistemonikos,CDSR, DARE, HTA, WHO ICTRP) were searched between 01 January 2000 and 31 May2016. No language restrictions were applied. Bibliographies of selected studiesand relevant Cochrane reviews were also hand-searched. Interventions delivered bycancer nurses were classified according to the OMAHA System. Heat maps were used to highlight the volume of evidence available for different cancer groups,intervention types and stage of cancer care continuum.RESULTS: The search identified 22,450 records; we screened 16,169 abstracts andconsidered 925 full papers, of which 214 studies (247,550 participants) wereincluded in the evidence synthesis. The majority of studies were conducted inEurope (n = 79) and USA (n = 74). Interventions were delivered across the cancer continuum from prevention and risk reduction to survivorship, with the majorityof interventions delivered during the treatment phase (n = 137). Most studies(131/214) had a teaching, guidance or counselling component. Cancer nurseinterventions were targeted at primarily breast, prostate or multiple cancers. Nostudies were conducted in brain, sarcoma or other rare cancer types. The majorityof the studies (n = 153) were nurse-led and delivered by specialist cancer nurses(n = 74) or advanced cancer nurses (n = 29), although the quality of reportingwas poor.CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first review to synthesiseevidence from intervention studies across the entire cancer spectrum. As such,this work provides new insights into the nature of the contribution that cancernurses have made to evidence-based innovations, as well as highlighting areas in which cancer nursing trials can be developed in the future.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2018.05.014 PMID: 29960894 