44. Cell Adh Migr. 2018 Jul 3. doi: 10.1080/19336918.2018.1475803. [Epub ahead ofprint]Behavioral Remodeling of Normal and Cancerous Epithelial Cell Lines withDiffering Invasion Potential Induced by Substrate Elastic Modulus.Ansardamavandi A(1), Tafazzoli-Shadpour M(2), Shokrgozar MA(3).Author information: (1)a Faculty of Biomedical Engineering , Amirkabir University of Technology ,Tehran , Iran . Ansari.arian@aut.ac.ir.(2)b Faculty of Biomedical Engineering , Amirkabir University of Technology ,Tehran , Iran . tafazoli@aut.ac.ir.(3)c National Cell Bank of Iran (NCBI), Pasteur Institute of Iran , Tehran , Iran. mashokrgozar@pasteur.ac.ir.The micro-environment of cancer cells in the body is mechanically stiffer thanthat of normal cells. This phenomenon may alter cellular features. We culturedthree breast cell lines of MCF10A-normal, MCF7-noninvasive, andMDA-MB-231-invasive on PDMS substrates with elastic moduli of 640kpa, 40kpa and10kpa, and examined alterations in morphology, cell area, actin structure, cellmotility and gene expression caused by substrate stiffness among three celllines. Effects of substrate stiffness on cell behavior were evident among allexamined cell lines. The average cell proliferation was magnified 2.2, 1.5 and1.6 folds when MCF10A, MCF7 and MDA-MB-231 cells were respectively cultured onstiff substrates compared to soft substrates. Cancerous cells were more sensitiveto substrate stiffness for cell behaviors that are related to cell motility andmigration which are necessary for invasion. The invasive cancerous cells had the highest sensitivity to all motility parameters and were the most motile onsubstrates with moderate stiffness followed by non-invasive cancerous cells. The speed of MDA-MB-231 cells raised significantly on the substrate with moderatestiffness, indicating 3-folds higher speeds compared to the cells on the stiffsubstrates. Distinct actin structures were observed for cells cultured onsubstrates with different stiffness values necessary for their cell-substrateinteraction and migration. Normal cells were least sensitive to substratestiffness for motility related parameters, however they were more sensitive tocell spreading as an indication of firm adhesion of normal breast cells compared to cancerous cells. IntegrinB1 and E-cadherin were enhanced due to the increased stiffness. Other cell-substrate and cell-cell adhesive markers varied bysubstrate stiffening. Other cell markers that were related to the biologicalbehaviors such as ECM protease, matrix degradation and cancer progression andcell filopodia (Moesin, Mitogen-activated protein kinases, Matrixmetalloproteinases, and human epidermal growth factor receptor2) were alsoaffected by substrate stiffness. Their alterations induced by substrate stiffnesswere generally according to the analyzed cell movement parameters. Resultssuggest that alterations in matrix stiffness may be related to cancer disease andits progress.DOI: 10.1080/19336918.2018.1475803 PMID: 29969940 