43. BMC Genomics. 2018 Jul 3;19(1):513. doi: 10.1186/s12864-018-4894-4.Trimodal distribution of arylamine N-acetyltransferase 1 mRNA in breast cancertumors: association with overall survival and drug resistance.Minchin RF(1), Butcher NJ(2).Author information: (1)Laboratory for Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology, School of BiomedicalSciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.r.minchin@uq.edu.au.(2)Laboratory for Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology, School of BiomedicalSciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.BACKGROUND: Arylamine N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) is a drug metabolizing enzyme that has been associated with cancer cell proliferation in vitro and withsurvival in vivo. NAT1 expression has been associated with the estrogen receptor and it has been proposed as a prognostic marker for estrogen receptor positivecancers. However, little is known about the distribution of NAT1 mRNA across anentire patient population or its effects on outcomes. To address this, geneexpression data from breast cancer patient cohorts were investigated to identify sub-populations based on the level of NAT1 expression. Patient survival and drug response was examined to determine whether NAT1 mRNA levels influenced any ofthese parameters.RESULTS: NAT1 expression showed a trimodal distribution in breast cancer samples (n = 1980) but not in tumor tissue from ovarian, prostate, cervical or colorectalcancers. In breast cancer, NAT1 mRNA in each sub-population correlated with aseparate set of genes suggesting different mechanisms of NAT1 gene regulation.Kaplan-Meier plots showed significantly better survival in patients with highest NAT1 mRNA compared to those with intermediate or low expression. While NAT1expression was elevated in estrogen receptor-positive patients, it did not appearto be dependent on estrogen receptor expression. Overall survival was analyzed inpatients receiving no treatment, hormone therapy or chemotherapy. NAT1 expressioncorrelated strongly with survival in the first 5 years in those patientsreceiving chemotherapy but did not influence survival in the other two groups.This suggests that low NAT1 expression is associated with chemo-resistance. Thesensitivity of NAT1 mRNA levels as a single parameter to identify non-responders to chemotherapy was 0.58 at a log(2) < 6.5.CONCLUSIONS: NAT1 mRNA can be used to segregate breast cancer patients intosub-populations that demonstrate different overall survival. Moreover, low NAT1expression shows a distinct poor response to chemotherapy. Analysis of NAT1expression may be useful for identifying specific individuals who would benefitfrom alternative therapy or drug combinations. However, additional information isrequired to increase the sensitivity of identifying non-responders.DOI: 10.1186/s12864-018-4894-4 PMCID: PMC6029418PMID: 29969986 