Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors declare thatthey have no competing interests.161. Front Genet. 2018 Jun 14;9:206. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00206. eCollection 2018.Combining Pathway Identification and Breast Cancer Survival Prediction viaScreening-Network Methods.Iuliano A(1)(2), Occhipinti A(3), Angelini C(1), De Feis I(1), Liò P(3).Author information: (1)Istituto per le Applicazioni del Calcolo "Mauro Picone", Consiglio Nazionaledelle Ricerche, Naples, Italy.(2)Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine, Pozzuoli, Italy.(3)Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.Breast cancer is one of the most common invasive tumors causing high mortalityamong women. It is characterized by high heterogeneity regarding its biologicaland clinical characteristics. Several high-throughput assays have been used tocollect genome-wide information for many patients in large collaborative studies.This knowledge has improved our understanding of its biology and led to newmethods of diagnosing and treating the disease. In particular, system biology hasbecome a valid approach to obtain better insights into breast cancer biologicalmechanisms. A crucial component of current research lies in identifying novelbiomarkers that can be predictive for breast cancer patient prognosis on thebasis of the molecular signature of the tumor sample. However, the high dimensionand low sample size of data greatly increase the difficulty of cancer survivalanalysis demanding for the development of ad-hoc statistical methods. In thiswork, we propose novel screening-network methods that predict patient survivaloutcome by screening key survival-related genes and we assess the capability ofthe proposed approaches using METABRIC dataset. In particular, we first identify a subset of genes by using variable screening techniques on gene expression data.Then, we perform Cox regression analysis by incorporating network informationassociated with the selected subset of genes. The novelty of this work consistsin the improved prediction of survival responses due to the different types ofscreenings (i.e., a biomedical-driven, data-driven and a combination of the two) before building the network-penalized model. Indeed, the combination of the twoscreening approaches allows us to use the available biological knowledge onbreast cancer and complement it with additional information emerging from thedata used for the analysis. Moreover, we also illustrate how to extend theproposed approaches to integrate an additional omic layer, such as copy numberaberrations, and we show that such strategies can further improve our prediction capabilities. In conclusion, our approaches allow to discriminate patients inhigh-and low-risk groups using few potential biomarkers and therefore, can helpclinicians to provide more precise prognoses and to facilitate the subsequentclinical management of patients at risk of disease.DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2018.00206 PMCID: PMC6011013PMID: 29963073 