Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.122. Mhealth. 2018 May 29;4:17. doi: 10.21037/mhealth.2018.04.02. eCollection 2018.Machine learning for detection of lymphedema among breast cancer survivors.Fu MR(1), Wang Y(2), Li C(2), Qiu Z(3), Axelrod D(4)(5), Guth AA(4)(5), ScagliolaJ(5), Conley Y(6), Aouizerat BE(7), Qiu JM(8), Yu G(1), Van Cleave JH(1), HaberJ(1), Cheung YK(9).Author information: (1)Rory Meyers College of Nursing, Tandon School of Engineering of NYU, New York University, New York, NY, USA.(2)Electrical and Computer Engineering, Tandon School of Engineering of NYU, New York University, New York, NY, USA.(3)Department of Chemistry and Environmental Science, New Jersey Institute ofTechnology, Newark, NJ, USA.(4)Department of Surgery, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NY,USA.(5)NYU Perlmutter Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.(6)School of Nursing, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.(7)Bluestone Center for Clinical Research, Department of Oral and MaxillofacialSurgery, College of Dentistry, New York University, New York, NY, USA.(8)Chemical and Physical Biology Concentration, Harvard University, Cambridge,MA, USA.(9)Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.Background: In the digital era when mHealth has emerged as an important venue forhealth care, the application of computer science, such as machine learning, hasproven to be a powerful tool for health care in detecting or predicting variousmedical conditions by providing improved accuracy over conventional statisticalor expert-based systems. Symptoms are often indicators for abnormal changes inbody functioning due to illness or side effects from medical treatment. Real-timesymptom report refers to the report of symptoms that patients are experiencing atthe time of reporting. The use of machine learning integrating real-timepatient-centered symptom report and real-time clinical analytics to developreal-time precision prediction may improve early detection of lymphedema and longterm clinical decision support for breast cancer survivors who face lifelong riskof lymphedema. Lymphedema, which is associated with more than 20 distressingsymptoms, is one of the most distressing and dreaded late adverse effects frombreast cancer treatment. Currently there is no cure for lymphedema, but earlydetection can help patients to receive timely intervention to effectively manage lymphedema. Because lymphedema can occur immediately after cancer surgery or aslate as 20 years after surgery, real-time detection of lymphedema using machinelearning is paramount to achieve timely detection that can reduce the risk oflymphedema progression to chronic or severe stages. This study appraised theaccuracy, sensitivity, and specificity to detect lymphedema status using machine learning algorithms based on real-time symptom report.Methods: A web-based study was conducted to collect patients' real-time report ofsymptoms using a mHealth system. Data regarding demographic and clinicalinformation, lymphedema status, and symptom features were collected. A total of355 patients from 45 states in the US completed the study. Statistical andmachine learning procedures were performed for data analysis. The performance of five renowned classification algorithms of machine learning were compared:Decision Tree of C4.5, Decision Tree of C5.0, gradient boosting model (GBM),artificial neural network (ANN), and support vector machine (SVM). Eachclassification algorithm has certain user-definable hyper parameters. Five-foldcross validation was used to optimize these hyper parameters and to choose theparameters that led to the highest average cross validation accuracy.Results: Using machine leaning procedures comparing different algorithms isfeasible. The ANN achieved the best performance for detecting lymphedema withaccuracy of 93.75%, sensitivity of 95.65%, and specificity of 91.03%.Conclusions: A well-trained ANN classifier using real-time symptom report canprovide highly accurate detection of lymphedema. Such detection accuracy issignificantly higher than that achievable by current and often used clinicalmethods such as bio-impedance analysis. Use of a well-trained classificationalgorithm to detect lymphedema based on symptom features is a highly promisingtool that may improve lymphedema outcomes.DOI: 10.21037/mhealth.2018.04.02 PMCID: PMC5994440PMID: 29963562 