Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have noconflicts of interest to declare.123. Front Oncol. 2018 Jun 14;8:227. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00227. eCollection 2018.Recent Advances in the Treatment of Breast Cancer.Tong CWS(1), Wu M(1), Cho WCS(2), To KKW(1).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine, School of Pharmacy, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong.(2)Department of Clinical Oncology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Hong Kong, HongKong.Breast cancer (BC) is the most common malignancy in women. It is classified into a few major molecular subtypes according to hormone and growth factor receptorexpression. Over the past few years, substantial advances have been made in thediscovery of new drugs for treating BC. Improved understanding of the biologicheterogeneity of BC has allowed the development of more effective andindividualized approach to treatment. In this review, we provide an update about the current treatment strategy and discuss the various emerging novel therapiesfor the major molecular subtypes of BC. A brief account of the clinicaldevelopment of inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, cyclin-dependentkinases 4 and 6, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin pathway, histone deacetylation, multi-targeting tyrosine kinases,and immune checkpoints for personalized treatment of BC is included. However, no targeted drug has been approved for the most aggressive subtype-triple negativebreast cancer (TNBC). Thus, we discuss the heterogeneity of TNBC and howmolecular subtyping of TNBC may help drug discovery for this deadly disease. The emergence of drug resistance also poses threat to the successful development oftargeted therapy in various molecular subtypes of BC. New clinical trials should incorporate advanced methods to identify changes induced by drug treatment, whichmay be associated with the upregulation of compensatory signaling pathways indrug resistant cancer cells.DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00227 PMCID: PMC6010518PMID: 29963498 