103. Psychooncology. 2018 Jul 2. doi: 10.1002/pon.4830. [Epub ahead of print]The development of a template for psychological assessment of women consideringrisk-reducing or contralateral prophylactic mastectomy: A national Delphiconsensus study.Braude L(1), Kirsten L(2)(3)(4), Gilchrist J(5), Juraskova I(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)School of Psychology, The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.(2)Psycho-oncology Co-operative Research Group (PoCoG), Sydney, Australia.(3)Centre for Medical Psychology and Evidence-based Decision-making (CeMPED), TheUniversity of Sydney, NSW, Australia.(4)Nepean Cancer Care Centre, Sydney West Cancer Network, NSW, Australia.(5)Mind My Health Clinical Psychology, Norwest Private Hospital, NSW, Australia.OBJECTIVE: Risk-reducing mastectomies (RRM) and contralateral prophylacticmastectomies (CPM) are increasingly prevalent strategies to reduce breast cancer risk. Given the associated physical and emotional challenges, pre-surgicalpsychological assessment is frequently recommended for this population, yetlimited research exists to guide this. This study aimed to reach a consensus onthe most relevant content and format of a psychological consultation prior toRRM/CPM.METHODS: A modified two-round online Delphi study was conducted Australia-wide.Expert participants (n=25), including psychologists, surgeons, nurses,oncologists, genetic specialists and researchers completed a round-one survey,informed by a literature review, previous qualitative study and expertclinicians' input. This required participants to rate their agreement with 36statements regarding potential content of a psychological consultation andprovide feedback on format/structure. A round-two survey comprised items that hadnot reached consensus and six new items suggested by participants. Parameters forstatement consensus were set a priori at >75% agreement.RESULTS: Expert participants indicated agreement with the majority of statements (39/42, 92.8%), endorsing that the assessment should include: i) patientunderstanding of the RRM/CPM procedure/cancer risk, ii) potentialphysical/emotional impact of surgery, iii) informed decision-making, and iv)past/current psychological issues (anxiety, body image). A provisional assessmenttemplate and user manual is provided.CONCLUSIONS: This research culminated in a consensus-based template to guidepsychological assessment of women considering RRM/CPM. This enables healthprofessionals to assess suitability for surgery and preempt challenges within astandardized framework. Future evaluation of the acceptability and effectiveness of the template in clinical settings is warranted.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4830 PMID: 29966172 