112. Mol Carcinog. 2018 Jul 2. doi: 10.1002/mc.22870. [Epub ahead of print]Catechol derived from aronia juice through lactic acid bacteria fermentationinhibits breast cancer stem cell formation via modulation Stat3/IL-6 signalingpathway.Choi HS(1)(2), Kim JH(1), Kim SL(1), Deng HY(1), Lee D(3), Kim CS(3), Yun BS(4), Lee DS(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Applied Life Science, Jeju NationalUniversity, Jeju, Korea.(2)Subtropical/Tropical Organism Gene Bank, Jeju National University, Jeju,Korea.(3)JEJU TECHNOPARK, Biodiversity Research Institute, Namwon, Seogwipo, Jeju,Korea.(4)Division of Biotechnology, College of Environmental and Bioresource Sciences, Chonbuk National University, Iksan, Korea.Cancer stem cells (CSCs) as a subpopulation of cancer cells are drug-resistantand radiation-resistant cancer cells to be responsible for tumor progress,maintenance and recurrence of cancer, and metastasis. This study isolated andinvestigated a new cancer stem cell (CSC) inhibitor derived from lactic acidfermentation products using culture broth with 2% aronia juice. The anti-CSCactivity of aronia-cultured broth was significantly higher than that of thecontrol. Activity-guided fractionation and repeated chromatographic preparationled to the isolation of one compound. Using nuclear magnetic resonance and ESImass spectrometry, we identified the isolated compound as catechol. In thisstudy, we report that aronia-fermented catechol has a novel inhibitory effect on human breast CSCs. Catechol inhibited breast cancer cell proliferation andmammosphere formation in a dose-dependent manner. This compound reduced theCD44high /CD24low subpopulation, ALDH-expressing cell population and theself-renewal-related genes nanog, sox2, and oct4. Catechol preferentially reducedmRNA transcripts and protein levels of Stat3 and did not induce c-Mycdegradation. These findings support the novel utilization of catechol for breast cancer therapy via the Stat3/IL-6 signaling pathway. Our results suggest thatcatechol can be used for breast cancer therapy and that Stat3 expression is amarker of CSCs. Catechol inhibited Stat3 signaling by reducing Stat3 expressionand secreted IL-6, a CSC survival factor. These findings support the novelutilization of catechol for breast cancer therapy via Stat3/IL-6 signaling.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/mc.22870 PMID: 29964299 