58. Cancer Med. 2018 Jul 2. doi: 10.1002/cam4.1568. [Epub ahead of print]Upregulated IQUB promotes cell proliferation and migration via activatingAkt/GSK3β/β-catenin signaling pathway in breast cancer.Li K(1), Ma YB(1), Zhang Z(1), Tian YH(2), Xu XL(1), He YQ(1), Xu L(1), Gao Y(3),Pan WT(1), Song WJ(1), He X(1), Wei L(1).Author information: (1)Hubei Provincial Key Laboratory of Developmentally Originated Disease,Department of Pathology and Pathophysiology, School of Basic Medical Sciences,Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei, China.(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Wuhan University,Wuhan, Hubei, China.(3)Hubei Key Laboratory of Tumor Biological Behaviors, Department of Breast andThyroid Surgery, Hubei Cancer Clinical Study Center, Zhongnan Hospital, WuhanUniversity, Wuhan, Hubei, China.Breast cancer was the highest incidence of tumor in women, which seriouslythreaten women's health. Our previous study found that the expression of IQUB (IQmotif and ubiquitin domain containing) was significantly increased in thedevelopment of breast cancer by transcriptome sequencing. However, there were no studies on the mechanism of IQUB in tumorigenesis. Further study showed that IQUBexpression was significantly increased in breast cancer, which had asignificantly positive correlation with pathological differentiation of breastcancer by tissue microarray analysis. Furthermore, we also discovered that IQUBoverexpression could obviously promote the proliferation and migration of MCF-7cells and increase the proportion of MCF-7 cells in S and G2/M phase in vitrostudy, while knockdown of IQUB caused inhibition of cell proliferation andmigration in MDA-MB-231 cells and increased the proportion of MDA-MB-231 cells inG1 phase. Furthermore, IQUB overexpression or knockdown combined with treatmentof Licl or MG-132 showed that IQUB activated Akt to promote GSK3βphosphorylation, which in turn activated Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway inbreast cancer cells. Taken together, these results indicated that upregulatedIQUB promoted breast cancer cell proliferation and migration via activatingAkt/GSK3β/β-catenin signaling pathway, which played an important part in thetumorigenesis and development of breast cancer.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1568 PMID: 29968965 