195. BMJ Open. 2018 Jun 30;8(6):e022622. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-022622.Effects of high-intensity interval training on vascular function in breast cancersurvivors undergoing anthracycline chemotherapy: design of a pilot study.Lee K(1), Kang I(2), Mortimer JE(3), Sattler F(1)(2), Mack WJ(4), FitzsimonsLA(5), Salem G(1), Dieli-Conwright CM(1)(2).Author information: (1)Division of Biokinesiology and Physical Therapy, Ostrow School of Dentistry,University of Southern California (USC), Los Angeles, California, USA.(2)Department of Medicine, University of Southern California (USC), Los Angeles, California, USA.(3)Division of Medical Oncology and Experimental Therapeutics, City of HopeComprehensive Cancer Center, Duarte, California, USA.(4)Department of Preventive Medicine, Keck School of Medicine, University ofSouthern California (USC), Los Angeles, California, USA.(5)Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences and Engineering, University of Maine,Orono, Maine, USA.INTRODUCTION: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality is higher among breastcancer survivors (BCS) who receive chemotherapy compared with those not receivingchemotherapy. Anthracycline chemotherapy is of particular concern due toanthracycline-related impairment of vascular endothelial cells and dysregulation of the extracellular matrix. One strategy proven to offset these impairments is aform of exercise known as high-intensity interval training (HIIT). HIIT improves endothelial function in non-cancer populations by decreasing oxidative stress,the main contributor to anthracycline-induced vascular dysfunction. The purposeof this pilot study is to assess the feasibility of an 8-week HIIT, as well asthe HIIT effects on endothelial function and extracellular matrix remodelling, inBCS undergoing anthracycline chemotherapy.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Thirty BCS are randomised to either HIIT, an 8-week HIITintervention occurring three times per week (seven alternating bouts of 90% ofpeak power output followed by 10% peak power output), or delayed group (DEL).Feasibility of HIIT is assessed by (1) the percentage of completed exercisesessions and (2) the number of minutes of exercise completed over the course ofthe study. Vascular function is assessed using brachial artery flow-mediateddilation and carotid intima media thickness. Extracellular matrix remodelling is assessed by the level of matrix metalloproteinases in the plasma. Arepeated-measures analysis of covariance model will be performed with group (HIITand DEL group) and time (pre/post assessment) as independent factors. Wehypothesise that HIIT will be feasible in BCS undergoing anthracyclinechemotherapy, and that HIIT will improve endothelial function and extracellularmatrix remodelling, compared with the DEL group. Success of this study willprovide evidence of feasibility and efficacy to support a larger definitive trialwhich will impact cancer survivorship by decreasing anthracycline-inducedvascular dysfunction, thereby benefiting cardiovascular markers that are related to CVD risk.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This trial was approved by the University of SouthernCalifornia Institutional Review Board (HS-15-00227).TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02454777; Pre-results.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-022622 PMCID: PMC6042553PMID: 29961039 