189. Nanoscale. 2018 Jul 13;10(27):13092-13105. doi: 10.1039/c8nr01478g.Diagnosis of immunomarkers in vivo via multiplexed surface enhanced Ramanspectroscopy with gold nanostars.Ou YC (1), Webb JA , O'Brien CM , Pence IJ , Lin EC , Paul EP , Cole D , Ou SH , Lapierre-Landry M , DeLapp RC , Lippmann ES , Mahadevan-Jansen A , Bardhan R .Author information: (1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Vanderbilt University,Nashville, TN 37212, USA. rizia.bardhan@vanderbilt.edu.In this work, we demonstrate the targeted diagnosis of immunomarker programmeddeath ligand 1 (PD-L1) and simultaneous detection of epidermal growth factorreceptor (EGFR) in breast cancer tumors in vivo using gold nanostars (AuNS) with multiplexed surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS). Real-time longitudinaltracking with SERS demonstrated maximum accumulation of AuNS occurred 6 h postintravenous (IV) delivery, enabling detection of both biomarkers simultaneously. Raman signal correlating to both PD-L1 and EGFR decreased by ∼30% in controltumors where receptors were pre-blocked prior to AuNS delivery, indicating boththe sensitivity and specificity of SERS in distinguishing tumors with differentlevels of PD-L1 and EGFR expression. Our in vivo study was combined with thefirst demonstration of ex vivo SERS spatial maps of whole tumor lesions thatprovided both a qualitative and quantitative assessment of biomarker status with near cellular-level resolution. High resolution SERS maps also provided anoverview of AuNS distribution in tumors which correlated well with the vasculardensity. Mass spectrometry showed AuNS accumulation in tumor and liver, andclearance via spleen, and electron microscopy revealed AuNS were endocytosed intumors, Kupffer cells in the liver, and macrophages in the spleen. This studydemonstrates that SERS-based diagnosis mediated by AuNS provides an accuratemeasure of multiple biomarkers both in vivo and ex vivo, which will ultimatelyenable a clinically-translatable platform for patient-tailored immunotherapiesand combination treatments.DOI: 10.1039/c8nr01478g PMID: 29961778 