181. Ethn Health. 2018 Jul 2:1-20. doi: 10.1080/13557858.2018.1493439. [Epub ahead of print]American Indian women cancer survivors' perceptions and experiences withconventional and non-conventional mental health care for depressive symptoms.Burnette CE(1), Liddell J(2), Roh S(3), Lee YS(4), Yun Lee H(5).Author information: (1)a School of Social Work , Tulane University , New Orleans , USA.(2)b City, Community, and Culture PhD Program, School of Social Work , TulaneUniversity , New Orleans , USA.(3)c Department of Social Work , University of South Dakota , Sioux Falls , USA.(4)d School of Social Work , San Francisco State University , San Francisco ,USA.(5)e School of Social Work , The University of Alabama , Tuscaloosa , USA.BACKGROUND: Despite cancer and depression being disproportionately high forAmerican Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) women, such cancer survivors'help-seeking practices and perceptions related to depression are absent in extantresearch. A broader context of historical oppression has set the stage forunequal health outcomes and access to quality services. The purpose of thisarticle was to explore AI women cancer survivors' experiences with conventionalmental health services and informal and tribally-based assistance, as well asbarriers related to mental health service utilization.METHODS: A qualitative descriptive study methodology, with qualitative contentanalysis, was used to examine the experiences of AI women cancer survivors asthey related to help-seeking experiences for depressive symptoms. The sampleincluded 43 AI women cancer survivors (n = 14 breast cancer, n = 14 cervicalcancer, and n = 15 colon and other types of cancer survivors).RESULTS: Since receiving a cancer diagnosis, 26 (62%) participants indicated theyhad feelings of depression. Some participants (n = 13) described mixedperceptions of the mental health service system. Generally, participants viewedfamilies and informal support systems as primary forms of assistance, whereasconventional services were reported as a supplementary or 'as needed' forms ofsupport, particularly when the informal support system was lacking. Participants received help in the forms of psychotropic medications and psychotherapy, as wellas help from family and AI-specific healing modalities (e.g. sweat lodges andhealing ceremonies). Stigma and confidentiality concerns were primary barriers toutilizing conventional services as described by 12 (29%) participants.DISCUSSION: Participants' help primarily came from family and tribally-basedentities, with conventional mental health care being more salient when informalsupports were lacking. The mixed perceptions espoused by participants may berelated to a broader context of historical oppression; family and social support and tribally-based services may be protective factors for cancer survivors withdepression.DOI: 10.1080/13557858.2018.1493439 PMID: 29962228 