27. Anticancer Res. 2018 Jul;38(7):4047-4056. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.12694.Prediction of Non-sentinel Lymph Node Metastases After Positive Sentinel LymphNodes Using Nomograms.Gruber I(1), Henzel M(2), Schönfisch B(3), Stäbler A(4), Taran FA(3), Hahn M(3), Röhm C(3), Helms G(3), Oberlechner E(3), Wiesinger B(5), Nikolaou K(5), LAFougère C(6), Wallwiener D(3), Hartkopf A(3), Krawczyk N(7), Fehm T(3)(7),Brucker S(3)(8).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Tübingen, Tübingen,Germany ines.gruber@med.uni-tuebingen.de.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Filder Clinic, Filderstadt-Bonlanden,Germany.(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Tübingen, Tübingen,Germany.(4)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Institute of Pathology and Neuropathology,University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.(5)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University of Tübingen,Tübingen, Germany.(6)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf,Germany.(8)Research Institute for Women's Health, University of Tübingen, Tübingen,Germany.BACKGROUND/AIM: Only 30-50% of patients with sentinel lymph node (SLN) metastasespresent with further axillary lymph node metastases. Therefore, up to 70% ofpatients with positive SLN are overtreated by axillary dissection (AD) and maysuffer from complications such as sensory disturbances or lymphedema. Accordingto the current S3 guidelines, AD can be avoided in patients with a T1/T2 tumor ifbreast-conserving surgery with subsequent tangential irradiation is performed andno more than two SLNs are affected. Additionally, use of nomograms, that predict the probability of non-sentinel lymph node (NSLN) metastases, is recommended.Therefore, models for the prediction of NSLN metastases in our defined populationwere constructed and compared with the published nomograms.PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a retrospective study, 2,146 primary breast cancerpatients, who underwent SLN biopsy at the University Women's Hospital inTuebingen, were evaluated by dividing the patient group in a training andvalidation collective (TC or VC). Using the SLN-positive TC patients, threemodels for the prediction of the likelihood of NSLN metastases were adapted andwere then validated using the SLN-positive VC patients. In addition, thepredictive power of nomograms from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center(MSKCC), Stanford, and the Cambridge model were compared with regard to ourpatient collective.RESULTS: A total of 2,146 patients were included in the study. Of these, 470patients had positive SLN, 295 consisted the training collective and 175consisted the validation collective. In a regression model, three variants - with11, 6 and 2 variables - were developed for the prediction of NSLN metastases inour defined population and compared to the most frequently used nomograms. Ourvariants with 11 and with 6 variables were proven to be a particularly suitablemodel and showed similarly good results as the published MSKCC nomogram.CONCLUSION: Our developed nomograms may be used as a prediction tool for NSLNmetastases after positive SLN.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.12694 PMID: 29970530  [Indexed for MEDLINE]