36. Radiat Oncol. 2018 Jul 3;13(1):122. doi: 10.1186/s13014-018-1066-2.Proton versus photon deep inspiration breath hold technique in patients withhodgkin lymphoma and mediastinal radiation : A PLANNING COMPARISON OF DEEPINSPIRATION BREATH HOLD INTENSITY MODULATION RADIOTHERAPY AND INTENSITY MODULATEDPROTON THERAPY.Baues C(1), Marnitz S(2), Engert A(3)(4), Baus W(2), Jablonska K(2), FogliataA(5), Vásquez-Torres A(2), Scorsetti M(5)(6), Cozzi L(5)(6).Author information: (1)Medical Faculty, Department of Radiation Oncology, CyberKnife Center andRadiation Reference Center of the GHSG, University of Cologne, Kerpener Str. 52, 50937 Köln, Cologne, Germany. Christian.Baues@uk-koeln.de.(2)Medical Faculty, Department of Radiation Oncology, CyberKnife Center andRadiation Reference Center of the GHSG, University of Cologne, Kerpener Str. 52, 50937 Köln, Cologne, Germany.(3)Medical Faculty, Department of Hematology and Oncology, University of Cologne,Cologne, Germany.(4)German Hodgkin Study Group, Cologne, Germany.(5)Radiotherapy and Radiosurgery, Humanitas Cancer Center and Research Hospital, Milan, Italy.(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.BACKGROUND: The benefits of proton therapy in the treatment of patients withHodgkin lymphoma (HL) are controversially discussed. Therefore we comparedintensitiy modulated proton therapy (IMPT) with intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT), in the form of volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) in patients withHodgkin lymphoma (HL), through a comparative treatment planning study.METHODS: Radiation plans for 21 patients with Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL) were computedfor IMPT and deep inspiration breath hold (DIBH) VMAT. Plans were optimized andcomputed assuming deep inspiration breath holding conditions. Dosimetriccomparison on standard metrics from dose volume histograms was performed toappraise the relative merits of the two techniques, while proton plan robustness was assessed by re-computing the dose distribution of each plan by varying theHounsfield Units to stopping power calibration by applying a ± 3 and 4% error.RESULTS: DIBH-VMAT and IMPT both provided excellent coverage, conformity andheterogeneity of the clinical target volume (CTV) and planning target volume(PTV). IMPT reduced mean doses to the breasts, lungs, heart and normal tissue by 38-83%. IMPT significantly reduced mean doses to the heart to < 5 Gy despitebulky mediastinal disease and decreased breast doses in female patients to< 1 Gy. Despite the simulated 3 and 4% miscalibration errors, no remarkable ormeasurable impact was observed on the organs at risk (OARs).CONCLUSIONS: This is the first comparison between DIBH-VMAT and IMPT in HLtreatment. We could demonstrate statistically significant decreases in alldose/volume metrics of the OARs. Regardless of the planning paradigm used, range uncertainties can substantially under dose the PTV, while perhaps not leading to clinically significant deterioration of CTV coverage. With the geometry appliedno impact was observed for OARs, suggesting IMPT as a superior technique forpotentially reducing future health risks for HL patients.DOI: 10.1186/s13014-018-1066-2 PMCID: PMC6029162PMID: 29970105 