189. East Mediterr Health J. 2018 Jun 25;24(4):360-367. doi: 10.26719/2018.24.4.360.Incidence pattern and spatial analysis of breast cancer in Iranian women:Geographical Information System applications.Ahmadi A(1), Ramazani R(2), Rezagholi T(3), Yavari P(4).Author information: (1)Modeling in Health Research Center, Shahrekord University of Medical Sciences,Shahrekord, Islamic Republic of Iran.(2)Ministry of Health and Medical Education, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.(3)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Shahid BeheshtiUniversity of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.(4)Department of Health & Community Medicine, School of Medicine, Shahid BeheshtiUniversity of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.Background: Breast cancer is the leading cancer in Iranian women, but no studies have yet been conducted on the distribution and pattern of its incidence.Aim: To perform a spatial analysis and determine the incidence pattern of breast cancer in the Islamic Republic of Iran.Methods: This was a cross-sectional, pathology-based study of all new femalepatients with breast cancer registered in the Islamic Republic of Iran in 2011(n=10 233). Initially, crude incidence rates were calculated for each provinceand the whole country per 100 000 person-years. Then, a direct standardizationmethod and World Health Organization standard population were used to adjust for age effects on a geographical scale. Stata and Arc GIS software were used tocalculate incidence rates and conduct spatial analysis.Results: The mean (standard deviation) age of the patients was 50.9 (12.6) years.The national age-standardized incidence rate for breast cancer in women was 29.88per 100 000 person-years, with a range of 5-72 in different provinces. Theclustering incidence pattern was observed in Mazandaran, Tehran, Alborz, Isfahan and Markazi Provinces (P < 0.01). There was a significant cluster of highincidence of breast cancer in Iranian women.Conclusion: These findings may help to establish etiological hypotheses of cancercausation and identify spatial anomalies in cancer incidence or registration inthe Islamic Republic of Iran. Our findings may also aid further research on thepossible explanations for these clusters and associations.Publisher: نمط الإصابة بسرطان الثدي في صفوف النساء الإيرانيات وتحليله مكانياً:تطبيقات لنظام المعلومات الجغرافية.علي أحمدي، رشيد رمضاني، طاهرة رضاغجولي، بروينياوري.يمثّل سرطان الثدي أكثر أنواع السرطان انتشاراً بين النساء الإيرانيات، غيرأنه لم تُر أي دراسة حتى الآن بشأن توزيعه ونمط الإصابة به.إجراء تحليل مكاني لسرطانالثدي وتحديد نمط الإصابة به في جمهورية إيران الإسلامية.أجريت دراسة باثولوجيةمقطعية لجميع المريضات حديثات الإصابة بسرطان الثدي المسجلات في جمهورية إيرانالإسلامية في عام 2011 (n=10233). وفي البداية، تم حساب المعدلات الخام للإصابة فيكل إقليم وفي البلد بالكامل لك 000 100 شخص في السنة. ثم استخدمت طريقة مباشرةللتوحيد القياسي فضلاً عن معيار منظمة الصحة العالمية للسكان لتحييد آثار السن علىنطاق جغرافي. واستخدمت برمجيتا Stata و Arc لنظام المعلومات الجغرافية من أجل حسابمعدلات الإصابة وإجراء التحليل المكاني.بلغ متوسط عمر المرضى (الانحراف المعياري)50.9 (12.6) عاماً. وبلغ معدل الإصابة بسرطان الثدي على المستوى الوطني في صفوفالنساء حسب العمر 29.88 لكل 000 100 امرأة في السنة، بمعدل يتراوح ما بين 5-72 فيمحافظات مختلفة. ولوحظ نمط الانتشار العنقودي في محافظات مازنداران وطهران والبورزواصفهان ومركزي (P<0.01). وتبين وجود مجموعة عنقودية كبيرة ذات مستوى إصابة مرتفعبسرطان الثدي في صفوف النساء الإيرانيات.قد تساعد هذه النتائج في وضع فرضيات لمسبباتالإصابة بالسرطان وتحديد حالات الشذوذ المكانية في انتشار السرطان أو تسجيلها فيجمهورية إيران الإسلامية. وقد تساعد استنتاجاتنا كذلك في إجراء مزيد من البحوث بشأن التفسيرات المحتملة لتلك المجموعات العنقودية والارتباطات.Publisher: Profild’incidence et analyse spatiale du cancer du sein chez les femmes iraniennes :utilisation des applications du Système d’information géographique.Le cancer dusein est le cancer le plus répandu chez les femmes iraniennes, mais aucune étude n’a été réalisée à ce jour sur la distribution et le profil de sonincidence.Procéder à une analyse spatiale et déterminer le profil d’incidence du cancer du sein en République islamique d’Iran.Il s’agissait d’une étudetransversale portant sur les caractéristiques pathologiques de toutes lesnouvelles patientes atteintes d’un cancer du sein enregistrées en Républiqueislamique d’Iran en 2011 (n=10 233). Dans un premier temps, les taux brutsd’incidence ont été calculés pour chaque province et dans l’ensemble du pays pour100 000 personnesannées. Ensuite, une méthode de standardisation directe et lapopulation type définie par l’Organisation mondiale de la Santé ont été utiliséespour ajuster les effets de l’âge sur une échelle géographique. Les logicielsStata et Arc GIS ont été mis en oeuvre pour calculer les taux d’incidence etconduire une analyse spatiale.L’âge moyen des patientes était de 50,9 ans (ET12,6). Le taux d’incidence standardisé sur l’âge était de 29,88 pour 100 000personnes-années à l’échelle nationale, et était compris entre 5 et 72 dansdifférentes provinces. Une agrégation de l’incidence a été observée dans lesprovinces de Mazandéran, de Téhéran, de l’Alborz, d’Ispahan et de Markazi (p <0,01). Il y avait une agrégation de l’incidence significativement élevée pour le cancer du sein chez les femmes iraniennes.Ces résultats pourraient permettre deposer des hypothèses étiologiques sur les causes de cancer du sein etd’identifier les anomalies spatiales en matière d’incidence ou enregistrement du cancer en République islamique d’Iran. Ils pourraient également aider larecherche future à déterminer les possibles explications de ces agrégations etassociations.Copyright © World Health Organization (WHO) 2018. Some rights reserved. This workis available under the CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO license(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/igo).DOI: 10.26719/2018.24.4.360 PMID: 29972230 