92. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4869-9. [Epub ahead of print]Extremely brief mindfulness interventions for women undergoing breast biopsies: arandomized controlled trial.Coelho BA(1)(2), Paiva SPC(3), da Silva Filho AL(4)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics of the School of Medicine of UNESP -Universidade Estadual Paulista "Júlio de Mesquita Filho", Distrito de RubiãoJúnior s/no, 18.618-970, Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil. budcoelho@gmail.com.(2)Faculty of Medicine, FIP-MOC, Faculdades Integradas Pitágoras de MontesClaros, Montes Claros, MG, Brazil. budcoelho@gmail.com.(3)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Faculty of Medicine, UFMG, FederalUniversity of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.(4)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics of the School of Medicine of UNESP -Universidade Estadual Paulista "Júlio de Mesquita Filho", Distrito de RubiãoJúnior s/no, 18.618-970, Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.PURPOSE: Mindfulness-based programs can reduce stress and help practitioners tohave positive attitudes in their daily lives. This randomized controlled trialevaluated the impact of brief Mindfulness interventions on quantitative andqualitative stress parameters in patients undergoing imaging-guided breastbiopsies.METHODS: Eighty-two women undergoing percutaneous imaging-guided breast biopsywere randomized into two groups: MBI group or standard care group. One weekbefore the biopsy procedure, on the waiting room and during the biopsy procedure,the MBI group was exposed to mindfulness techniques and the standard care groupreceived supportive dialogue from the biopsy team. Participants completedquestionnaires measuring depression, anxiety and stress, demographics, andmedical history, besides evaluating their pain experience through a visualanalogue scale for pain and had their systolic and diastolic blood pressure,initial and final temperate, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and salivary cortisolmeasured.RESULTS: Participation in the mindfulness intervention group was associated with reduced levels of perceived stress, blood pressure, heart rate, and oxygensaturation compared to participation in the standard care group (Pvalues < 0.05). No difference was observed regarding salivary cortisol levels,peripheral temperature, and pain perception between the two studied groups.CONCLUSION: Results indicate that an extremely brief mindfulness intervention is a feasible intervention, suggesting that Mindfulness-based programs may bebeneficial to reduce discomfort in acutely stressful settings.DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4869-9 PMID: 29978417 