Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest21. Anticancer Res. 2018 Jul;38(7):4381-4386. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.12740.Efficacy and Safety of Bi-weekly Pegfilgrastim for Dose-denseChemotherapy-induced Neutropenia in Breast Cancer Patients.Mori H(1), Kubo M(2), Kai M(1), Kurata K(1), Yamada M(1), Nakamura M(1).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery and Oncology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences,Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.(2)Department of Surgery and Oncology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences,Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan mkubo@tumor.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp.BACKGROUND/AIM: The dose-dense doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (ddAC) forpatients with HER-2-negative breast cancer is recommended by the NationalComprehensive Cancer Network guideline in US. However, there are little data onserum G-CSF concentrations in patients undergoing bi-weekly dose-dense therapywith pegfilgrastim. The objective of this study was to compare the serum G-CSFconcentrations in patients receiving pegfilgrastim in bi- or tri-weekly regimens.PATIENTS AND METHODS: This study included 26 patients who received ddAC ordocetaxel and cyclophosphamide (TC) for primary breast cancer. Serum G-CSFconcentrations were measured by ELISA.RESULTS: Serum G-CSF concentrations peaked in the second week of ddAC cases andin the ninth week of TC cases. Neutrophils gradually increased until the sixthweek in ddAC cases, while they were slightly decreased during the first threeweeks in TC cases. Treatments were completed without febrile neutropenia ortreatment delays.CONCLUSION: Primary prophylactic pegfilgrastim administrations increased serumG-CSF concentrations, helping to maintain the absolute neutrophil counts that arerequired to undergo chemotherapy. The treatment of ddAC with 3.6 mg pegfilgrastimis completely safe for female Japanese patients.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.12740 PMID: 29970577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]