153. Br J Surg. 2018 Jul 4. doi: 10.1002/bjs.10899. [Epub ahead of print]Meta-analysis of the cumulative risk of endometrial malignancy and systematicreview of endometrial surveillance in extended tamoxifen therapy.Fleming CA(1), Heneghan HM(1), O'Brien D(2), McCartan DP(1), McDermott EW(1),Prichard RS(1).Author information: (1)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, St Vincent's Hospital Group,Dublin, Ireland.(2)Department of Gynaecology, St Vincent's Hospital Group, Dublin, Ireland.BACKGROUND: Optimal management of the endometrium in patients with oestrogenreceptor-positive breast cancer taking extended tamoxifen therapy (for 10 years) remains uncertain. A meta-analysis was performed to determine the cumulative riskratio (RR) for endometrial malignancy following extended compared with standardtamoxifen treatment. A systematic review was undertaken to identify whetherroutine endometrial surveillance in patients receiving tamoxifen is associatedwith earlier detection and reduced incidence of endometrial malignancy.METHODS: Two independent searches were undertaken in the Cochrane Library, PubMedand MEDLINE. A meta-analysis was performed of RCTs reporting on endometrialmalignancy risk in extended tamoxifen therapy. A systematic review includedprospective studies investigating the benefit of endometrial surveillance during tamoxifen therapy.RESULTS: Four RCTs reported on endometrial risk in extended tamoxifen therapy.The cumulative risk of endometrial malignancy increased twofold from 1·5 to 3·2per cent with extended therapy compared with the standard 5 years of tamoxifen(RR 2·29, 95 per cent c.i. 1·60 to 3·28; P < 0·001). Four studies analysed thevalue of endometrial screening in 5-year cohorts. Endometrial cancer rates of up to 2 per cent were reported, which is higher than rates in the large extendedtamoxifen trials.CONCLUSION: Extended adjuvant tamoxifen is associated with an increase inendometrial cancer. No clear benefit has been shown for routine endometrialsurveillance in asymptomatic patients on tamoxifen therapy.© 2018 BJS Society Ltd Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/bjs.10899 PMID: 29974455 