Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.132. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2018;47(6):2199-2215. doi: 10.1159/000491533. Epub 2018 Jul5.Antiestrogenic Activity of the Xi-Huang Formula for Breast Cancer by Targetingthe Estrogen Receptor α.Hao J(1), Jin Z(2), Zhu H(1), Liu X(3), Mao Y(1), Yang X(4), Gao L(5), Liu D(1), Chen D(2), Wu X(3).Author information: (1)Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital, National ClinicalResearch Center for Cancer, Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and Therapy,Tianjin, China.(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, Qi-Xiang-Tai Road, Tianjin, China.(3)Zhong-Shan-Men Inpatient Department, Tianjin Medical University CancerInstitute and Hospital, Tianjin, China.(4)Tianjin Medical University General Hospital, Tianjin, China.(5)Modern Research Center for Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shanxi University,Taiyuan, China.BACKGROUND/AIMS: The Xi-Huang (XH) formula has been used for breast cancertreatment in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) since 1740. In this study, weshow that, XH extract could suppress the growth of breast cancer cells in vitroand in vivo, and that it preferentially inhibits cell growth of estrogen receptorpositive (ER+) breast cancer cells. Presently, little is known about thepotential mechanism of XH and our studies aim to elucidate its mechanism inbreast cancer treatment.METHODS: Network-based systems biology and molecular docking analyses wereperformed to predict explicit targets of XH and active ingredients in XH. Theeffects of XH on cell viability, cell cycle, apoptosis in different breast cancercell lines were analyzed in vitro. A model of transplanted tumors on nude micewas used to study the anticancer effect in vivo. Various techniques, includingwestern blotting, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR),immunofluorescence, co-immunoprecipitation and immunohistochemical were utilized to assess the expression of targets of XH in vitro and in vivo. RNA sequencing(RNA-seq) was performed to study the gene targets of XH. Furthermore, we analyzedof protein-ligand binding reactions by isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC).RESULTS: Using network-based systems biology and molecular docking analyses, wepredicted that the major targets of XH were ERα and HSP90. Moreover, we foundthat, XH mediated its anti-cancer effects by promoting the disassociation of ERα and HSP90, resulting in the degradation of ERα and blockade of transport of ERαto the nucleus. XH also caused the dissociation of ERα and other oncoproteins viabinding to HSP90. Some of the active ingredients in XH share a commoncyclopentane hydrogen skeleton and were predicted to target ERα based on thestructural similarity.CONCLUSIONS: XH, which has been used since 1740, has antiestrogenic effects inbreast cancer via the targeting of ERα.© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.DOI: 10.1159/000491533 PMID: 29975948 