127. BMC Endocr Disord. 2018 Jul 5;18(1):46. doi: 10.1186/s12902-018-0275-x.Papillary thyroid carcinoma with pleomorphic tumor giant cells in a pregnantwoman - a case report.Paulsson JO(1), Zedenius J(2)(3), Juhlin CC(4)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.(2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden.(3)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Karolinska University Hospital,Stockholm, Sweden.(4)Department of Oncology-Pathology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.christofer.juhlin@ki.se.(5)Department of Pathology and Cytology, Karolinska University Hospital,Stockholm, Sweden. christofer.juhlin@ki.se.BACKGROUND: Papillary thyroid carcinoma with pleomorphic tumor giant cells(PTC-PC) is characterized by the occurrence of bizarre, pleomorphic cells within a small area of a conventional PTC. The histologic distinction between PTC-PC andPTC's with a focal anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) component (denoted in the 2004WHO classification as "papillary thyroid carcinoma with spindle and giant cellcarcinoma", PTC-SGC) is debated, however the prognosis is thought to be different(excellent for PTC-PC, poor for PTC-SGC). Therefore, this diagnostic challenge issignificant for any endocrine pathologist to recognize. Herein, we report thehistological and clinical workup of a PTC-PC case, with particular focus on themolecular analyses that facilitated the establishment of the final diagnosis.CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a pregnant, 28-year-old female presenting witha 30 mm conventional PTC, with focal areas with undifferentiated cells exhibitingexaggerated nuclear pleomorphism. No foci of extrathyroidal extension,angioinvasion or lymph node engagement were seen. Immunohistochemical analysesrevealed the pleomorphic cells exhibiting retained differentiation. Moleculargenetic analyses demonstrated a codon V600 missense mutation of the BRAF gene,but no TP53 or TERT promoter mutations. The absence of an aggressive phenotype inaddition to the lack of mutations in two major ATC-related genes led to thediagnosis of a PTC-PC. Postoperative MRI showed no evidence of metastaticdisease. Radioiodine ablation was performed seven months post-operatively, and a SPECT-CT imaging did not show signs of residual tissue. She is well and withoutsigns of disease 16 months post-operatively.CONCLUSIONS: PTC-PC is a differential diagnosis to PTC-SGC that mandates careful considerations. Taken together with previous publications, PTC-PC seems to behistologically similar to PTC-SGC, but clinically distinct. Even so, thedistinction is not easily made given the different therapeutic consequences foreach individual patient. This is the first report that includes moleculargenetics to aid in finalizing the diagnosis. Exclusion of mutations in TP53 andthe TERT promoter could be considered as an adjunct tool when assessing papillarythyroid cancer with focal pleomorphism.DOI: 10.1186/s12902-018-0275-x PMCID: PMC6034243PMID: 29976183 