141. Cancer. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1002/cncr.31569. [Epub ahead of print]Effect of exercise on metabolic syndrome in black women by family history andpredicted risk of breast cancer: The FIERCE study.Dash C(1), Taylor TR(2), Makambi KH(3), Hicks J(4), Hagberg JM(5), Adams-CampbellLL(1).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center,Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, District of Columbia.(2)Department of Medicine, Howard University Cancer Center, Howard University,Washington, District of Columbia.(3)Department of Biostatistics, Bioinformatics & Biomathematics, GeorgetownLombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical Center,Washington, District of Columbia.(4)Office of Minority Health and Health Disparities Research, Georgetown LombardiComprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington,District of Columbia.(5)Department of Kinesiology, University of Maryland School of Public Health,College Park, Maryland.BACKGROUND: This study examined the effects of supervised and home-based exerciseinterventions on changes in metabolic syndrome (MetS) according to breast cancer risk (high vs low) in black women enrolled in the Focused Intervention onExercise to Reduce Cancer (FIERCE) trial.METHODS: Postmenopausal, obese, metabolically unhealthy black women, 45 to 65years old, were randomized to supervised aerobic exercise (73 women), home-based walking-based exercise (69 women), or a control arm (71 women). Participants inthe exercise arms underwent a 6-month intervention with study assessmentsconducted at the baseline and 6 months. The primary outcome measure was MetS(fasting glucose, waist circumference, blood pressure, serum triglycerides, andhigh-density lipoprotein [HDL]). The intervention effects on MetS, stratified by breast cancer risk as measured by the family history of breast cancer andmodel-based projected breast cancer risk, were examined with intent-to-treatanalyses using generalized estimating equation models.RESULTS: Among women with a family history of breast cancer, the exercise armshad lower mean MetS z scores, which suggested an improvement in the metabolicprofile, than controls at 6 months (controls, + 0.55; home-based arm, -0.97,P < .01; supervised arm, -0.89, P < .01). Stratified analyses by projected breastcancer risk suggested similar but statistically nonsignificant findings, withthose at high risk having more favorable changes in the MetS z score in theexercise arms versus the control arm. These changes were primarily attributableto changes in blood pressure, triglycerides, and HDL.CONCLUSIONS: Short-term aerobic activity regimens may improve the metabolicprofile and thereby reduce breast cancer risk in obese, metabolically unhealthyblack women at high risk for cancer. Cancer 2018. © 2018 American Cancer Society.© 2018 American Cancer Society.DOI: 10.1002/cncr.31569 PMID: 29975403 