83. Chemistry. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1002/chem.201802611. [Epub ahead of print]Near-Infrared Light Responsive Imaging-Guided Photothermal and PhotodynamicSynergistic Therapy Nanoplatform Based on Carbon Nanohorns for Efficient CancerTreatment.Gao C(1), Dong P(1), Lin Z(1), Guo X(1), Jiang BP(1), Ji S(1), Liang H(1), ShenXC(1).Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory for Chemistry and Molecular Engineering of, MedicalResources, School of Chemistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guangxi NormalUniversity, Guilin, 541004, P. R. China.Indocyanine green (ICG) is an effective light absorber for laser-mediatedphotodynamic therapy. However, applications of ICG are limited due to its rapiddegradation and poor photostability in water. Herein, we report the developmentof a multifunctional nanoplatform by coating ICG on the surface of single-walled carbon nanohorns (SWNHs) through π-π stacking, obtaining SWNH-ICGs with highsolubility and stability under physiological conditions. The SWNH-ICGs could beused as a single nanoplatform to simultaneously produce satisfactory hyperthermiaand reactive oxygen species under near-infrared (NIR) laser irradiation. Inaddition, the SWNH-ICGs not only improved the photostability of ICG in different media, but also protected it from light degradation. The SWNH-ICGs exhibitedhighly efficient thermal/photoacoustic (PA) imaging-guided photothermal therapy(PTT) and photodynamic therapy (PDT) effects, even under low-power laserirradiation (0.3 W cm-2 ) in vitro. Combined PTT and PDT effectively killedtriple-negative breast cancer 4T1 cells, demonstrating a markedly improved andsynergistic therapeutic effect compared to PTT or PDT alone. Furthermore,significant tumor growth inhibition as well as tumor cell death were observedfollowing PTT/PDT at 808 nm laser irradiation, confirming the synergistic effectsof SWNH-ICGs over free ICG in vivo. This facile and simple methodology forthermal/PA imaging-guided PTT/PDT suggests that SWNH-ICGs may serve as aneffective nanoplatform for cancer therapy.© 2018 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.DOI: 10.1002/chem.201802611 PMID: 29978545 