154. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Jul 4. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4865-0. [Epub ahead of print]Patient-reported factors influencing the treatment decision-making process ofolder women with non-metastatic breast cancer: a systematic review of qualitativeevidence.Angarita FA(1), Elmi M(1), Zhang Y(2), Look Hong NJ(3)(4).Author information: (1)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, Canada.(2)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Ottawa,Ottawa, ON, Canada.(3)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, Canada. nicole.lookhong@sunnybrook.ca.(4)Division of Surgical Oncology, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 BayviewAve., Room T2 102, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada. nicole.lookhong@sunnybrook.ca.PURPOSE: Older women (≥ 70 years old) with breast cancer undergo differenttreatments than young women. Studies have examined factors that influence thisdisparity, but synthesized patient-reported data are lacking in the literature.This study aims to identify, appraise, and synthesize the existing qualitativeevidence on patient-reported factors influencing older women's decision to acceptor decline breast cancer treatment.METHODS: A systematic review was performed in accordance with Preferred ReportingItems for Systematic Review and Meta-analysis Protocols (PRISMA) principles.Medline, Embase, CINAHL, and PsycINFO were searched for qualitative studiesdescribing patient-reported factors influencing the decision-making process ofolder women (≥ 70 years old) with non-metastatic invasive breast cancer. Quality was assessed using the Standards for Reporting Qualitative Research (SRQR)criteria. Common ideas were coded, thematically organized, and synthesized withina theoretical framework.RESULTS: Of 5998 studies identified, 10 met eligibility criteria. The median SRQRtotal score was 13.04 (IQR 12.84-13.81). The studies represented a range ofcancer treatments; most of the studies focused on surgery and primary endocrinetherapy. Our data show that the most common patient-reported factors in thedecision-making process included treatment characteristics, personalgoals/beliefs, patient characteristics, physician's recommendation, andpersonal/family experience. These factors led the patient to either accept ordecline treatment, and were not consistent across all studies included. Studiesused different interview guides, which may have affected these results.CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review highlights the complexity of factors thatinfluence an older woman's treatment decision-making process. Acknowledging andaddressing these factors may improve discussions about treatment choices between older women and their health care providers, and encourage maximization of apatient-centered approach.DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4865-0 PMID: 29974359 