Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financialinterest.166. Front Pharmacol. 2018 Jun 20;9:650. doi: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00650. eCollection2018.Chemoprevention of LA7-Induced Mammary Tumor Growth by SM6Met, aWell-Characterized Cyclopia Extract.Oyenihi OR(1), Krygsman A(2), Verhoog N(1), de Beer D(3)(4), Saayman MJ(5),Mouton TM(5), Louw A(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biochemistry, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, SouthAfrica.(2)Department of Physiological Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch,South Africa.(3)Post-Harvest and Agro-Processing Technologies, Agricultural Research Councilof South Africa, Infruitec-Nietvoorbij, Stellenbosch, South Africa.(4)Department of Food Science, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, SouthAfrica.(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Cape Peninsula University of Technology,Cape Town, South Africa.Breast cancer (BC) is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in women.Chemoprevention of BC by using plant extracts is gaining attention. SM6Met, awell-characterized extract of Cyclopia subternata with reported selectiveestrogen receptor subtype activity, has shown tumor suppressive effects in achemically induced BC model in rats, which is known to be estrogen responsive.However, there is no information on the estrogen sensitivity of the relativelynew orthotopic model of LA7 cell-induced mammary tumors. In the present study,the potential chemopreventative and side-effect profile of SM6Met on LA7cell-induced tumor growth was evaluated, as was the effects of 17β-estradiol and standard-of-care (SOC) endocrine therapies, such as tamoxifen (TAM), letrozole(LET), and fulvestrant (FUL). Tumor growth was observed in the tumor-vehiclecontrol group until day 10 post tumor induction, which declined afterward on days12-14. SM6Met suppressed tumor growth to the same extent as TAM, while LET, butnot FUL, also showed substantial anti-tumor effects. Short-term 17β-estradioltreatment reduced tumor volume on days prior to day 10, whereas tumor promotingeffects were observed during long-term treatment, which was especially evident atlater time points. Marked elevation in serum markers of liver injury, which wasfurther supported by histological evaluation, was observed in the vehicle-treatedtumor control, TAM, LET, and long-term 17β-estradiol treatment groups.Alterations in the lipid profiles were also observed in the 17β-estradioltreatment groups. In contrast, SM6Met did not augment the increase in serumlevels of liver injury biomarkers caused by tumor induction and no effect wasobserved on lipid profiles. In summary, the results from the current studydemonstrate the chemopreventative effect of SM6Met on mammary tumor growth, whichwas comparable to that of TAM, without eliciting the negative side-effectsobserved with this SOC endocrine therapy. Furthermore, the results of this study also showed some responsiveness of LA7-induced tumors to estrogen and SOCendocrine therapies. Thus, this model may be useful in evaluating potentialendocrine therapies for hormone responsive BC.DOI: 10.3389/fphar.2018.00650 PMCID: PMC6019492PMID: 29973879 