Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest20. J Cancer Res Ther. 2018 Jun;14(Supplement):S324-S330. doi:10.4103/0973-1482.235349.Synergistic effect of thymoquinone and melatonin against breast cancer implanted in mice.Odeh LH(1), Talib WH(1), Basheti IA(1).Author information: (1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Therapeutics, Applied Science University, Amman, Jordan.Aim: To test the anticancer potential of a combination of thymoquinone (TQ) andmelatonin (MLT) against breast cancer implanted in mice.Materials and Methods: The antiproliferative activity of TQ, MLT, and theircombination was tested against mouse epithelial breast cancer cell line (EMT6/P) using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. Thecombination index (CI) was calculated using isobolographic method. Balb/C micewere transplanted with EMT6/P cell line and in vivo antitumor activity wasassessed for TQ, MLT, and their combination. Changes in tumor size were measured for each treatment. Histological examination of tumor sections was performedusing standard hematoxylin/eosin staining protocol and TUNEL colorimetric assaywas used to test the apoptosis induction ability for all treatments.Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect vascular endothelial growthfactor (VEGF) expression in tumor section and ELISA was used to measure serumlevels of interferon gamma (INF-γ) and interleukin-4. Serum levels of the liverenzymes aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were used as biomarkers of hepatotoxicity of the combination therapy.Results: Synergistic anticancer effect was observed between TQ and MLT with CIvalue of 0.552. The combination of TQ and MLT caused a significant decrease intumor size with a percentage cure of 60%. The combination therapy inducedextensive necrosis, increased apoptosis rate, and decreased VEGF expression intumor sections. Serum levels of INF-γ were increased in mice treated withcombination therapy and AST and ALT levels were close to their normal values.Conclusions: The combination TQ and MLT act synergistically to inhibit breastcancer implanted in mice. The anticancer effect of this combination is mediatedby induction of apoptosis, angiogenesis inhibition, and activation of T helper 1 anticancer immune response.DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.235349 PMID: 29970684 