198. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 3. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6616-1. [Epub ahead of print]Patient-Reported Outcomes for Breast Cancer.Tevis SE(1), James TA(2), Kuerer HM(3), Pusic AL(4), Yao KA(5), Merlino J(6),Dietz J(7).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.(2)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center/Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(3)Department of Breast Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas MD AndersonCancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. hkuerer@mdanderson.org.(4)Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center, Boston, MA, USA.(5)Northshore University HealthSystem, Evanston, IL, USA.(6)Press Ganey Associates, South Bend, IN, USA.(7)Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA.Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) provide insight into how patients perceivehealth and treatment effects, how treatments impact outcomes, and are helpful in determining how disease and surgical interventions impact many aspects of apatients' life. Commonly utilized metrics include survival and disease control,degree of recovery and functional status, access to treatment, treatment-related complications, health-related quality of life, and long-term consequences oftherapy. The key to value-based, patient-centered health care is systematicallyincorporating patient input into the measures that they consider to be the mostimportant outcomes for a particular medical condition while minimizing costs ofcare. This manuscript reviews the development and validation of multipleavailable PROs in breast surgical oncology and reconstruction, their impact inimproving patient-physician communication and treatment outcome, and potentialfor impacting reimbursement. The implementation of PROs can be complex andchallenging and care must be taken to minimize the potential for survey fatigueby patients and the potential financial burden for implementation, maintenance,and analyses of collected data. Because there is an increased emphasis inproviding high-value care for cancer patients, the widespread incorporation oftransparent breast-specific PROs stratified by treatments received and diseasestage will be essential in delivering exceptional quality care.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6616-1 PMID: 29971671 