79. Mol Carcinog. 2018 Jul 6. doi: 10.1002/mc.22874. [Epub ahead of print]131 -Oxophorbine protopheophorbide A from Ziziphus lotus as a novelmesenchymal-epithelial transition factor receptor inhibitory lead for the controlof breast tumor growth in vitro and in vivo.Souid S(1)(2), Elsayed HE(3), Ebrahim HY(3), Mohyeldin MM(3)(4), Siddique AB(3), Karoui H(1)(2), El Sayed KA(3), Essafi-Benkhadir K(1)(2).Author information: (1)Institut Pasteur de Tunis, LR11IPT04, LR16IPT04 Laboratoire d'EpidémiologieMoléculaire et Pathologie Expérimentale Appliquée Aux Maladies Infectieuses,Tunis, Tunisia.(2)Université de Tunis El Manar, Tunis, Tunisia.(3)Department of Basic Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, University ofLouisiana at Monroe, Monroe, Louisiana.(4)Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Alexandria University,Alexandria, Egypt.The failure of chemotherapy especially in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC)patients has been correlated with the overexpression of themesenchymal-epithelial transition factor (c-Met) receptor. Thus, the hepatocytegrowth factor (HGF)/c-Met signaling axis has gained considerable attention as avalid molecular target for breast cancer therapy. This study reports for thefirst time the discovery of the 131 -oxophorbines pheophorbide A andprotopheophorbide A along with chlorophyllide A from Ziziphus lotus, an edibletypical Tunisian plant, as the potent antiproliferative compounds against thehuman breast cancer cells MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7. Compared to other compounds,protopheophorbide A exerted the highest light-independent antiproliferativeeffect against the metastatic TNBC MDA-MB-231 cells (IC50  = 6.5 μM). In silico, this compound targeted the kinase domain of multiple c-Met crystal structures. Itpotently inhibited the kinase domain phosphorylation of wild and mutant c-Met in Z-LYTE kinase assay. Protopheophorbide A inhibited HGF-induced downstreamc-Met-dependent cell proliferation, survival, adhesion and migration throughRAF/MEK/ERK and PI3K/PTEN/AKT signaling pathways modulation, ROS generation andactivation of JNK and p38 pathways. Interestingly, this compound impaired theability of the MDA-MB-231 cells to adhere at different extracellular matrixproteins by reducing the HGF-induced expression of integrins αv, β3, α2, and β1. Moreover, protopheophorbide A exhibited anti-migratory properties (IC50 = 2.2 μM) through impacting the expression levels of E-cadherin, vimentin,β-catenin, FAK, Brk, Rac, and Src proteins. Importantly, treatment withprotopheophorbide A significantly inhibited the MDA-MB-231 tumor growth in vivo. Our results suggest that protopheophorbide A could be a novel c-Met inhibitorylead with promise to control c-Met/HGF-dependent breast malignancies.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/mc.22874 PMID: 29978911 