175. Breast Cancer Res. 2018 Jul 4;20(1):64. doi: 10.1186/s13058-018-0978-y.Identification and validation of single-sample breast cancer radiosensitivitygene expression predictors.Sjöström M(1)(2), Staaf J(3), Edén P(4), Wärnberg F(5), Bergh J(6)(7), Malmström P(3)(8), Fernö M(3), Niméus E(3)(9)(10), Fredriksson I(11)(12).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Oncology andPathology, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. Martin.Sjostrom@med.lu.se.(2)Department of Haematology, Oncology and Radiation Physics ,Skåne UniversityHospital, Lund, Sweden. Martin.Sjostrom@med.lu.se.(3)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Oncology andPathology, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.(4)Department of Theoretical Physics and Computational Biology, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.(5)Department of Surgical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.(6)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Cancer Center Karolinska, KarolinskaInstitutet, Stockholm, Sweden.(7)Department of Oncology, Karolinska University Hospital, Radiumhemmet,Stockholm, Sweden.(8)Department of Haematology, Oncology and Radiation Physics ,Skåne UniversityHospital, Lund, Sweden.(9)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Surgery, LundUniversity, Lund, Sweden.(10)Department of Surgery, Skåne University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.(11)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden.(12)Department of Breast- and Endocrine Surgery, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.BACKGROUND: Adjuvant radiotherapy is the standard of care after breast-conservingsurgery for primary breast cancer, despite a majority of patients being over- or under-treated. In contrast to adjuvant endocrine therapy and chemotherapy, nodiagnostic tests are in clinical use that can stratify patients for adjuvantradiotherapy. This study presents the development and validation of a targetedgene expression assay to predict the risk of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence and response to adjuvant radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery in primary breast cancer.METHODS: Fresh-frozen primary tumors from 336 patients radically (clear margins) operated on with breast-conserving surgery with or without radiotherapy werecollected. Patients were split into a discovery cohort (N = 172) and a validationcohort (N = 164). Genes predicting ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence in anIllumina HT12 v4 whole transcriptome analysis were combined with genes identifiedin the literature (248 genes in total) to develop a targeted radiosensitivityassay on the Nanostring nCounter platform. Single-sample predictors foripsilateral breast tumor recurrence based on a k-top scoring pairs algorithm weretrained, stratified for estrogen receptor (ER) status and radiotherapy. Twopreviously published profiles, the radiosensitivity signature of Speers et al.,and the 10-gene signature of Eschrich et al., were also included in the targeted panel.RESULTS: Derived single-sample predictors were prognostic for ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence in radiotherapy-treated ER+ patients (AUC 0.67, p = 0.01), ER+patients without radiotherapy (AUC = 0.89, p = 0.02), and radiotherapy-treatedER- patients (AUC = 0.78, p < 0.001). Among ER+ patients, radiotherapy had anexcellent effect on tumors classified as radiosensitive (p < 0.001), whileradiotherapy had no effect on tumors classified as radioresistant (p = 0.36) and there was a high risk of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (55% at 10 years).Our single-sample predictors developed in ER+ tumors and the radiosensitivitysignature correlated with proliferation, while single-sample predictors developedin ER- tumors correlated with immune response. The 10-gene signature negativelycorrelated with both proliferation and immune response.CONCLUSIONS: Our targeted single-sample predictors were prognostic foripsilateral breast tumor recurrence and have the potential to stratify patientsfor adjuvant radiotherapy. The correlation of models with biology may explain thedifferent performance in subgroups of breast cancer.DOI: 10.1186/s13058-018-0978-y PMCID: PMC6033283PMID: 29973242 