162. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4875-y. [Epub ahead of print]Breast cancer and its impact in male transsexuals.Nikolić D(1)(2), Granić M(3)(4), Ivanović N(3)(4), Zdravković D(3)(4), NikolićA(3)(5), Stanimirović V(6), Zdravković M(3)(4), Dikić S(3)(4), Nikolić M(3),Djordjević M(3)(7).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.nikolicdrdejan@gmail.com.(2)University Medical Center Bežanijska kosa, Str. George Matheo bb, 11080,Belgrade, Serbia. nikolicdrdejan@gmail.com.(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.(4)University Medical Center Bežanijska kosa, Str. George Matheo bb, 11080,Belgrade, Serbia.(5)Institute for Cardiovascular Diseases Dedinje, Belgrade, Serbia.(6)Medicine and Medical Devices Agency of Republic of Serbia, Belgrade, Serbia.(7)Children's Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia.INTRODUCTION: Lesbian, gay, and bisexuals have unique healthcare needs. Breastcancer is leading cancer in women, worldwide, accounting for 25% of all cases.Annual incidence rates increased significantly in all countries and age groups.The occurrence of breast cancer is rare in transgender population. As they havevery limited access to medical care, it is much less likely to pursue breastcancer screening than in other individuals not identified as transgender.REVIEW OF THE CASES FROM LITERATURE: Up to date, only 13 cases of the breastcancer transsexuals (female to male) have been reported in six published papersworldwide. Histological examination of the breast tumor in female-to-maletransgender showed progesterone/estrogen-positive invasive ductal carcinoma.DISCUSSION: Gender identity describes a person's inherent sense of being a woman,man, or of neither gender, whereas sexual orientation refers to how peopleidentify their physical and emotional attraction to others. Gender reassignmentsurgery, as series of complex surgical genital and non-genital procedures, isrecognized as the most effective treatment for patients with gender dysphoria.The two main principles of hormone therapy for transgender patients are to reduceendogenous hormone levels and their associated sex characteristics and replacethem with hormones of the preferred sex. Breast cancer infrequently occurs intransgender patients. Even breast core biopsies can be difficult for interpretingafter changes in breast tissue in female-to-male transsexuals following genderreassignment.CONCLUSION: Reviewing the literature, so many different data concerningprobability of breast cancer in sexual minority can be found. Breast cancerscreening program should be offered to all transgender individuals according tonational guidelines. Very important is to take into consideration a transgenderperson's natal and surgical anatomy, unique clinical concerns for depression and anxiety, risk of suicide together with risk factors including experiences ofharassment or physical or sexual violence, low education level, and unemployment.Understanding the need for mammography in these often marginalized groups is veryimportant in addressing breast cancer disparities despite differences ininsurance coverage in some countries and greater concern for the cancer of thebreast in residual breast tissue. The best screening rule, ever, for breastcancer in male transsexuals and other similar population should be, besidessurgical history and hormonal status, "Screen Now, Screen Regularly and ScreenWhat You Have."DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4875-y PMID: 29974289 