190. J Cell Mol Med. 2018 Jul 4. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.13720. [Epub ahead of print]Inference of patient-specific subpathway activities reveals a functionalsignature associated with the prognosis of patients with breast cancer.Han J(1), Liu S(1), Jiang Y(2), Xu C(1), Zheng B(1), Jiang M(1), Yang H(1), SuF(1), Li C(3), Zhang Y(1).Author information: (1)College of Bioinformatics Science and Technology, Harbin Medical University,Harbin, China.(2)College of Basic Medical Science, Heilongjiang University of Chinese Medicine,Harbin, China.(3)School of Medical Informatics, Daqing Campus, Harbin Medical University,Harbin, China.Breast cancer is one of the most deadly forms of cancer in women worldwide.Better prediction of breast cancer prognosis is essential for more personalizedtreatment. In this study, we aimed to infer patient-specific subpathwayactivities to reveal a functional signature associated with the prognosis ofpatients with breast cancer. We integrated pathway structure with gene expressiondata to construct patient-specific subpathway activity profiles using a greedysearch algorithm. A four-subpathway prognostic signature was developed in thetraining set using a random forest supervised classification algorithm and aprognostic score model with the activity profiles. According to the signature,patients were classified into high-risk and low-risk groups with significantlydifferent overall survival in the training set (median survival of 65 vs106 months, P = 1.82e-13) and test set (median survival of 75 vs 101 months,P = 4.17e-5). Our signature was then applied to five independent breast cancerdata sets and showed similar prognostic values, confirming the accuracy androbustness of the subpathway signature. Stratified analysis suggested that thefour-subpathway signature had prognostic value within subtypes of breast cancer. Our results suggest that the four-subpathway signature may be a useful biomarker for breast cancer prognosis.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.13720 PMID: 29971923 