131. Ultraschall Med. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1055/a-0637-1725. [Epub ahead of print]Ultrasound-Assisted Tumor Surgery in Breast Cancer - A Prospective, Randomized,Single-Center Study (MAC 001).Hoffmann J(1), Marx M(2), Hengstmann A(2), Seeger H(2), Oberlechner E(2), HelmsG(2), Röhm C(2), Ott C(2), Wallwiener D(2), Stäbler A(3), Wiesinger B(4),Hartkopf AD(2), Brucker SY(2), Hahn M(2).Author information: (1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital of Duesseldorf,Germany.(2)Department for Women's Health, University Hospital of Tuebingen, Germany.(3)Department for Pathology and Neuropathology, University Hospital Tuebingen,Germany.(4)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Tuebingen, Germany.PURPOSE:  Breast-conserving therapy is associated with a risk of tumor-involvedmargins. For intraoperative orientation, non- palpable or indistinctly palpablelesions are wire-marked prior to surgery. Ultrasound-guided surgery has thepotential to reduce the number of tumor-involved margins. In the MAC 001 trial weevaluated ultrasound-guided breast-conserving surgery compared to wire-guidedsurgery with regard to free tumor margins, duration of surgery and resectionvolume.MATERIALS AND METHODS:  In this randomized, prospective, single-center controlledtrial, patients with ductal invasive breast cancer were recruited for eitherultrasound-guided or wire localization surgery. Primary outcomes were tumor-free resection margins, the reoperation rate and the resection volume in eachgroup. The results were analyzed by intention to treat. The trial was registered under ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02222675.RESULTS:  56 patients were assessed, and 47 patients were evaluated in the trial.93 % (25/27) of the patients in the ultrasound arm had an R0 reoperation comparedto 65 % (13/20) in the wire localization control arm. This result wasstatistically significant (p = 0.026). No statistical difference was found forthe resection volume or the duration of surgery between the two arms. No majorcomplication was seen in either arm.CONCLUSION:  Ultrasound-assisted breast surgery significantly increases thepossibility of tumor-free margins and therefore reduces the risk of reoperations.Breast surgeons should be trained in ultrasound and ultrasound should beavailable in every breast surgery operating room.Publisher: ZIEL:  Die brusterhaltende Therapie des Mammakarzinoms unterliegt dem Risiko der R1-Resektion. Zur intraoperativen Orientierung werden nicht oderunsicher palpable Tumoren vor der Operation mittels Draht markiert. Mittels derultraschall-assistierten Tumorchirurgie kann die Rate an R1 Resektionen reduziertwerden. Die MAC 001 Studie verglich die ultraschall-assistierte Tumorchirurgiemit der konventionellen drahtmarkierten Chirurgie und untersuchte dabei dieR0-Resektionsrate, Operationszeit und das Resektionsvolumen. Patientinnen miteinem invasiv duktalen Mammakarzinom wurden in die prospektiv, randomisierte,unizentrische Studie eingeschlossen und entweder in den ultraschall-assistierten oder Draht markierten Arm randomisiert und ausgewertet. Die Studie war unterClinicalTrial.gov NCT02222675 registriert worden. 56 Patientinnen erfüllten dieEinschlusskriterien von dehnen 47 ausgewertet werden konnten. 93 % (25/27) derPatientinnen im ultraschall-assistierten Arm hatten im Vergleich zu 65 % (13/20) im Draht markierten Kontrollarm eine R0 Resektion. Das Ergebnis war statistischsignifikant (p = 0.026). In Bezug auf das entnommene Resektionsvolumen und dieOperationsdauer wurde kein signifikanter Unterschied beobachtet.Revisionspflichtige Komplikationen traten nicht auf. Die ultraschall-assistierte Tumorchirurgie kann im Vergleich zur konventionellen Draht markiertenTumorchirurgie die R0-Rate bei brusterhaltender Operation signifikant erhöhen.Aus unserer Sicht sollten Brustchirurgen im Ultraschall ausgebildet sein. EinUltraschallgerät sollte Bestandteil jedes Brustoperationssaales sein.© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.DOI: 10.1055/a-0637-1725 PMID: 29975969 