95. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6603-6. [Epub ahead of print]Ethical Considerations of Medical Photography in the Management of BreastDisease.Nguyen TT(1), VanderWalde L(2), Bellavance E(3), Eisenhauer T(4), Hieken T(5),Johnson N(6), Kaufman DI(7), O'Neill J(8), Patten CR(9), Teller P(10), TevisS(11), Sarantou T(12), Throckmorton A(2).Author information: (1)Lakeland Regional Health, Lakeland, FL, USA. tnguyen8117@yahoo.com.(2)Baptist Cancer Center, Memphis, TN, USA.(3)Department of Surgery, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, USA.(4)Pardee UNC Health Care, Hendersonville, NC, USA.(5)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(6)Legacy Cancer Institute, Portland, OR, USA.(7)St. Joseph Hospital, Bethpage, NY, USA.(8)Arizona Breast Consultants, Avondale, AZ, USA.(9)Department of Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.(10)Maine Medical Center, Portland, ME, USA.(11)MD Anderson, Houston, TX, USA.(12)Department of General Surgery, Levine Cancer Institute, Carolinas Healthcare System, Charlotte, NC, USA.BACKGROUND: Medical photography has become an important component of theevaluation and management of patients across many specialties. It is increasinglyutilized in contemporary practice with modern smartphones and enhanced digitalmedia. Photography can enhance and improve treatment plans and communicationbetween providers and patients. Additionally, photography supplements education, research, and marketing in both print and social media. Ethical and medicolegalstandards for medical photography, specifically for patients with breast disease,have not been formally developed to guide medical providers.PURPOSE: To provide guidelines for breast care physicians using medicalphotography, the Ethics Committee of the American Society of Breast Surgeonspresents an updated review of the literature and recommendations for ethical and practical use of photography in patient care.METHODS: An extensive PubMed review of articles in English was performed toidentify studies and articles published prior to 2018 investigating the use ofmedical photography in patient care and the ethics of medical photography. After review of the literature, members of the Ethics Committee convened a paneldiscussion to identify best practices for the use of medical photography in thebreast care setting. Results of the literature and panel discussion were thenincorporated to provide the content of this article.CONCLUSION: The Ethics Committee of the American Society of Breast Surgeonsacknowledges that photography of the breast has become an invaluable tool in the delivery of state-of-the-art care to our patients with breast disease, and weencourage the use of this important medium. Physicians must be well informedregarding the concerns associated with medical photography of the breast tooptimize its safe and ethical use in clinical practice.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6603-6 PMID: 29978370 