147. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2018 May 30;64(7):86-91.Pomegranate peel extract inhibits expression of β-catenin, epithelial mesenchymaltransition, and metastasis in triple negative breast cancer cells.Bagheri M(1), Fazli M(2), Saeednia S(2), Kor A(3), Ahmadiankia N(2).Author information: (1)Clinical Research Development Unit, Imam Hossein Hospital, Shahroud Universityof Medical Sciences, Shahroud, Iran.(2)School of Medicine, Shahroud University of Medical Sciences, Shahroud, Iran.(3)Student Research Committee, School of Medicine, Shahroud University of MedicalSciences, Shahroud, Iran.The standard treatment for triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is chemotherapy, which is highly toxic to patients; thereby, there is a need to identify safer andmore effective therapeutic approaches. Medicinal plants constitute a commonalternative for cancer treatment. Pomegranate is a well-known fruit in thiscontext, but its antimetastatic property has not been extensively studied. Asbreast cancer-related deaths from TNBC are mainly due to metastasis, the present study was designed to investigate the antimigratory effect of pomegranate peelextract (PPE) on TNBC cells. For this purpose, the MDA-MB-231 cells were treated with different concentrations of PPE for 24, 48 and 72 hr. The effects of PPE on cell migration and invasion were determined by wound healing and transwellassays. To address the possible molecular mechanisms underlying theantimetastatic effect of PPE, real-time quantitative PCR analysis of selectedepithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers were performed. Moreover, theexpression of β-catenin as a critical factor in promoting cancer metastasis wasexamined. PPE markedly inhibited the migration and invasion of cells atconcentrations of 25, 50, 100, 250, 500, and 1000µg/ml. At relatively highconcentrations (500, 1000µg/ml), PPE induced apoptosis. Moreover, PPE decreasedthe gene expression of vimentin, ZEB1, and β-catenin and also increased theexpression of E-cadherin in TNBC cells. The protein level of β-catenin, asmeasured using western analysis, revealed a time-dependent decrease at theconcentration of 1000µg/ml PPE. Downregulation of EMT markers and β-cateninshowed accordance with the inhibition of migration and invasion. The present datashow that PPE could be a promising drug candidate to reduce metastasis in TNBCcells.PMID: 29974851 