82. J Appl Clin Med Phys. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1002/acm2.12409. [Epub ahead of print]Dosimetric effects of anatomical deformations and positioning errors in VMATbreast radiotherapy.Rossi M(1)(2), Boman E(1)(2), Skyttä T(2), Haltamo M(2), Laaksomaa M(2), Kapanen M(1)(2).Author information: (1)Medical Imaging Centre, Department of Physics, Tampere University Hospital,Tampere, Finland.(2)Department of Oncology, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, Finland.AIM: Traditional radiotherapy treatment techniques of the breast are insensitive for deformations and swelling of the soft tissue. The purpose of this study wasto evaluate the dose changes seen with tissue deformations using different image matching methods when VMAT technique was used, and compare these with tangential technique.METHODS: The study included 24 patients with breast or chest wall irradiations,nine of whom were bilateral. In addition to planar kV setup imaging, patientsunderwent weekly cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) imaging to evaluate softtissue deformations. The effect of the deformations was evaluated on VMAT plansoptimized with 5-mm virtual bolus to create skin flash, and compared to standard tangential plans with 2.5 cm skin flash. Isocenter positioning using 2D imagingand CBCT were compared.RESULTS: With postural changes and soft tissue deformations, the target coverage decreased more in the VMAT plans than in the tangential plans. The planned V90%coverage was 98.3% and 99.0% in the tangential and VMAT plans, respectively. Whentattoo-based setup and online 2D match were used, the coverage decreased to 97.9%in tangential and 96.5% in VMAT plans (P < 0.001). With automatic CBCT-basedimage match the respective coverages were 98.3% and 98.8%. In the cases of large soft tissue deformations, the replanning was needed for the VMAT plan, whereasthe tangential plan still covered the whole target volume.CONCLUSIONS: The skin flash created using an optimization bolus for VMAT planswas in most cases enough to take into account the soft tissue deformations seenin breast VMAT treatments. However, in some cases larger skin flash or replanningwere needed. The use of 2D match decreased the target coverage for VMAT plans butnot for FinF plans when compared to 3D match. The use of CBCT match isrecommended when treating breast/chest wall patients with VMAT technique.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Applied Clinical Medical Physics published byWiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of American Association of Physicists inMedicine.DOI: 10.1002/acm2.12409 PMID: 29978548 