16. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2018 Jun 29. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djy108. [Epub ahead of print]A Bibliometric Analysis of the Landscape of Cancer Rehabilitation Research(1992-2016).Stout NL(1), Alfano CM(2), Belter CW(3), Nitkin R(4), Cernich A(4), LohmannSiegel K(5), Chan L(1).Author information: (1)National Institutes of Health, Clinical Center, Rehabilitation MedicineDepartment, Bethesda, MD.(2)American Cancer Society, Washington, DC.(3)National Institutes of Health Library, Bethesda, MD.(4)Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Development,Center for Medical Rehabilitation Research, Rockville, MD.(5)Department of Veterans Affairs, Rehabilitation Research and DevelopmentService, Washington, DC.Cancer rehabilitation research has accelerated as great attention has focused on improving survivorship care. Recent expert consensus has attempted to prioritize research needs and suggests greater focus on studying physical functioning ofsurvivors. However, no analysis of the publication landscape has substantiatedthese proposed needs. This manuscript provides an analysis of PubMed indexedarticles related to cancer rehabilitation published between 1992 and 2017. Atotal of 22 171 publications were analyzed using machine learning and textanalysis to assess publication metrics, topic areas of emphasis, and theirinterrelationships through topic similarity networks. Publications have increasedat a rate of 136 articles per year. Approximately 10% of publications were fundedby the National Institutes of Health institutes and centers, with the NationalCancer Institute being the most prominent funder. The greatest volume and rate ofpublication increase were in the topics of Cognitive and Behavioral Therapies andPsychological Interventions, followed by Depression and Exercise Therapy. Fourresearch topic similarity networks were identified and provide insight on areasof robust publication and notable deficits. Findings suggest that publicationemphasis has strongly supported cognitive, behavioral, and psychologicaltherapies; however, studies of functional morbidity and physical rehabilitationresearch are lacking. Three areas of publication deficits are noted: research on populations outside of breast, prostate, and lung cancers; methods forintegrating physical rehabilitation services with cancer care, specificallyregarding functional screening and assessment; and physical rehabilitationinterventions. These deficits align with the needs identified by expert consensusand support the supposition that future research should emphasize a focus onphysical rehabilitation.DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djy108 PMID: 29982543 