Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.21. BMJ Open. 2018 Jul 7;8(7):e021817. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-021817.Early Life Interventions for Childhood Growth and Development in Tanzania(ELICIT): a protocol for a randomised factorial, double-blind, placebo-controlledtrial of azithromycin, nitazoxanide and nicotinamide.DeBoer MD(1), Platts-Mills JA(2), Scharf RJ(1)(2), McDermid JM(2), Wanjuhi AW(1),Gratz J(2), Svensen E(3), Swann JR(4), Donowitz JR(5), Jatosh S(6), Houpt ER(2), Mduma E(6).Author information: (1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia,USA.(2)Department of Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia,USA.(3)Department of Global Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen, Bergen,Norway.(4)Department of Surgery & Cancer, Imperial College of London, London, UK.(5)Division of Infectious Disease, Children's Hospital of Richmond at VirginiaCommonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia, USA.(6)Haydom Global Health Research Centre, Haydom Lutheran Hospital, Haydom,Tanzania.INTRODUCTION: In many developing areas in the world, a high burden of entericpathogens in early childhood are associated with growth deficits. Thetryptophan-kynurenine-niacin pathway has been linked to enteric inflammatoryresponses to intestinal infections. However, it is not known in these settingswhether scheduled antimicrobial intervention to reduce subclinical entericpathogen carriage or repletion of the tryptophan-kynurenine-niacin pathwayimproves linear growth and development.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We are conducting a randomised, placebo-controlled,factorial intervention trial in the rural setting of Haydom, Tanzania. We arerecruiting 1188 children within the first 14 days of life, who will be randomisedin a 2×2 factorial design to administration of antimicrobials (azithromycin andnitazoxanide, randomised together) and nicotinamide. The nicotinamide isadministered as a daily oral dose, which for breast-feeding children aged 0-6months is given to the mother and for children aged 6-18 months is given to thechild directly. Azithromycin is given to the child as a single oral dose atmonths 6, 9, 12 and 15; nitazoxanide is given as a 3-day course at months 12 and 15. Mother/child pairs are followed via monthly in-home visits. The primaryoutcome is the child's length-for-age Z-score at 18 months. Secondary outcomesfor the child include additional anthropometry measures; stool pathogen burdenand bacterial microbiome; systemic and enteric inflammation; blood metabolomics, growth factors, inflammation and nutrition; hydrogen breath assessment toestimate small-intestinal bacterial overgrowth and assessment of cognitivedevelopment. Secondary outcomes for the mother include breastmilk content ofnicotinamide, other vitamins and amino acids; blood measures oftryptophan-kynurenine-niacin pathway and stool pathogens.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This trial has been approved by the Tanzanian National Institute for Medical Research, the Tanzanian FDA and the University of Virginia IRB. Findings will be presented at national and international conferences andpublished in peer-review journals.PROTOCOL VERSION: 5.0, 4 December 2017.PROTOCOL SPONSOR: Haydom Lutheran Hospital, Haydom, Manyara, Tanzania.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT03268902; Pre-results.© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unlessotherwise expressly granted.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-021817 PMCID: PMC6042604PMID: 29982218 