Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest:None to declare2. Colomb Med (Cali). 2018 Mar 30;49(1):35-41. doi: 10.25100/cm.v49i1.3785.Trends in cancer incidence and mortality over three decades in Quito - Ecuador.Corral Cordero F(1), Cueva Ayala P(2)(3), Yépez Maldonado J(2)(3), TarupiMontenegro W(4).Author information: (1)Director Honorífico de los Registros de Cáncer del Ecuador - Fundador delRegistro Nacional de Tumores. Quito, Ecuador.(2)Registro Nacional de Tumores, Quito, Ecuador.(3)Sociedad de Lucha contra el Cáncer. SOLCA Quito, Ecuador.(4)Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Tecnológica Equinoccial, QuitoEcuador.Introduction: The National Registry of Tumors has collected, processed, analyzed and regularly disseminated information on new cases of cancer diagnosed in thecity of Quito, Ecuador over the last three decades.Aim: This article analyzed the trend of cancer incidence and mortality rates for the period 1985-2013.Methods: Incidence and mortality rates standardized by age were estimated by the direct method, using the world standard population. Analysis of the time trends, from selected locations, the joinpoint regression was used.Results: A decrease in the incidence and mortality rates of cervical and stomach cancers were documented. There was an increase in breast and colorectal cancerrates. The increase of the incidence rate of thyroid cancer in women wasnotorious. Lung cancer also increased in women while in men their values remainedstable.Conclusion: There are important variations in the evolution of cancer in Quito;the information presented is an instrument for monitoring and evaluating theinterventions that are developed in the Country.Publisher: El Registro Nacional de Tumores ha recolectado, procesado, analizado ydivulgado regularmente la información de los casos nuevos de cáncerdiagnosticados en la ciudad de Quito, Ecuador durante las últimas tresdécadas.Analizar la tendencia de las tasas de incidencia y mortalidad por cáncer durante el periodo 1985-2013.Se estimaron las tasas de incidencia y mortalidadestandarizadas por edad a través del método directo, utilizando la poblaciónestándar mundial. Para el análisis de la tendencia de las tasas, delocalizaciones seleccionadas, se utilizó la regresión joinpoint.Se documentó undescenso de las tasas de incidencia y mortalidad de los tipos de cáncer de cuellouterino y estómago. Existe incremento de las tasas de cánceres de mama ycolon-recto. Es notorio el crecimiento de la tasa de incidencia de cáncer detiroides en mujeres. El cáncer de pulmón se incrementó en las mujeres en tantoque en los varones sus valores se mantuvieron estables.Se evidencian importantes variaciones en la evolución del cáncer en Quito, la información presentadaconstituye un instrumento para el seguimiento y evaluación de las intervenciones que se desarrollen.DOI: 10.25100/cm.v49i1.3785 PMCID: PMC6018821PMID: 29983462 