162. Cancer Med. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1002/cam4.1608. [Epub ahead of print]Breast screening participation and retention among immigrants and nonimmigrantsin British Columbia: A population-based study.Woods RR(1)(2), McGrail KM(1), Kliewer EV(2)(3), Kazanjian A(1), Mar C(2), KanL(2), Sam J(2), Spinelli JJ(1)(2).Author information: (1)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia,Vancouver, BC, Canada.(2)Population Oncology, BC Cancer, Vancouver, BC, Canada.(3)Community Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada.Breast cancer screening programs operate across Canada providing mammography towomen in target age groups with the goal of reducing breast cancer mortalitythrough early detection of tumors. Disparities in breast screening participation among socio-demographic groups, including immigrants, have been reported inCanada. Our objectives were to: (1) assess breast screening participation andretention among immigrant and nonimmigrant women in British Columbia (BC),Canada; and (2) to characterize factors associated with screening amongscreening-age recent immigrant women in BC. We examined 2 population-basedcohorts of women eligible for breast screening participation (537 783 women) and retention (281 052 women) using linked health and immigration data. Breastscreening rates were presented according to socio-demographic and health-related variables stratified by birth country. Factors associated with screening amongrecent immigrant women were explored using Poisson regression. We observed markedvariation in screening participation across birth country cohorts. EasternEuropean/Central Asian women showed low participation (37.9%) with rates fromindividual countries ranging from 35.0% to 49.0%. Participation rates forimmigrant women from the most common birth countries, such as China/Macau/HongKong/Taiwan (45.7%), India (44.5%), the Philippines (45.9%), and South Korea(39.0%), were lower than the nonimmigrant rates (51.2%). Retention rates showedless variation by birth country; however, some disparities between immigrant and nonimmigrant groups persisted. Associations between screening indicators andstudy factors varied considerably across immigrant groups. Primary care physicianvisits were consistently positively associated with screening participation; thisvariable was also the only predictor associated with screening within each of thegroups of recent immigrants. Our study provides unique data on both screeningparticipation and retention among Canadian immigrant women compiled by individualcountry of birth. Our results are further demonstration that screeningdisparities exist among immigrant populations as well as in comparison withnonimmigrant women.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1608 PMID: 29984906 