Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest todeclare.150. Transl Behav Med. 2018 Jul 7. doi: 10.1093/tbm/iby058. [Epub ahead of print]Feasibility of a Smartphone-based pilot intervention for Hispanic breast cancersurvivors: a brief report.Buscemi J(1)(2), Buitrago D(3), Iacobelli F(4), Penedo F(3), Maciel C(3),Guitleman J(5), Balakrishnan A(3), Corden M(6), Adler RF(4), Bouchard LC(3),Perez-Tamayo A(7), Yanez BR(3).Author information: (1)Department of Psychology, DePaul University, Chicago, IL, USA.(2)Institute for Health Research and Policy, University of Illinois at Chicago,Chicago, IL, USA.(3)Department of Medical Social Sciences, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA.(4)Department of Computer Science, Northeastern Illinois University, DeKalb, IL, USA.(5)Alas Wings, Chicago, IL, USA.(6)Department of Preventive Medicine Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA.(7)Department of Surgery, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.Hispanic breast cancer survivors (BCS) are at high risk for experiencing poorhealth-related quality of life (HRQoL) after completion of active breast cancertreatment. Therefore, there is a need to develop culturally tailoredinterventions for Hispanic BCS. To date, there have been limited interventionsthat have demonstrated that increasing cancer-related knowledge, self-efficacy incommunication, and self-management skills can improve HRQoL among Hispanic BCS.These interventions have been delivered in person or by phone, which may beburdensome for Hispanic BCS. To facilitate intervention delivery, we developed MyGuide, a Smartphone application aimed at improving HRQoL among Hispanic BCS. The purpose of the current study is to describe the feasibility results of a 4-weekpilot trial testing My Guide among Hispanic BCS. Twenty-five women enrolled inthe study (75% recruitment rate) and 22 women were retained (91.6% retentionrate). Mean time spent using My Guide across the 4 weeks was 9.25 hr, and meanscore on the satisfaction survey was 65.91 (range 42-70), in which higher scores reflect greater satisfaction. Participants' scores on the Breast Cancer KnowledgeQuestionnaire significantly improved from study baseline (M = 9.50, SD = 2.92) tothe postintervention assessment (M = 11.14, SD = 2.66), d = 0.59. Participants'HRQoL scores improved over the course of 4 weeks, but these improvements were notstatistically significant. Overall, My Guide was feasible and acceptable. Future studies will assess the preliminary efficacy of My Guide in improving HRQoL in a larger, randomized trial of Hispanic BCS.DOI: 10.1093/tbm/iby058 PMID: 29986120 