17. Carcinogenesis. 2018 Jul 5. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgy090. [Epub ahead of print]cAMP Regulated EPAC1 Supports Microvascular Density, Angiogenic and MetastaticProperties in a Model of Triple Negative Breast Cancer.Kumar N(1), Prasad P(1), Jash E(1), Jayasundar S(1), Singh I(2), Alam N(3), MurmuN(4), Somashekhar SP(5), Goldman A(6)(7)(8), Sehrawat S(1)(7)(8).Author information: (1)Brain Metastasis and NeuroVascular Disease Modeling Lab, Department of LifeSciences, School of Natural Sciences, Shiv Nadar University, India.(2)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, Hope CenterProgram on Protein Aggregation and Neurodegeneration, Charles F. and JoanneKnight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.(3)Department of Surgical Oncology, Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute,Kolkata, India.(4)Department of Signal Transduction and Biogenic Amines, Chittaranjan NationalCancer Institute, Kolkata, India.(5)Manipal Hospitals, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.(6)Mitra Biotech, Integrative Immuno-Oncology Center. Woburn, MA.(7)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(8)Division of Engineering in Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital.Breast cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality in women.Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC; HER2-, ER-/PR-) is an aggressive subtypeprone to drug resistance and metastasis, which is characterized by highintratumor microvascular density (iMVD) resulting from angiogenesis. However, themechanisms contributing to the aggressive phenotypes of TNBC remain elusive. Werecently reported that down-regulation of exchange factor directly activated byCyclic AMP (cAMP), also known as EPAC1, leads to a reduction in metastaticproperties including proliferation and cell migration in TNBC cell lines. Here,we report that EPAC1 supports TNBC-induced angiogenesis, tumor cell migration andinvasiveness as well as pro-metastatic phenotypes in endothelial cells inducedthrough the tumor secretome. Using an approach that integrates proteomics withbioinformatics and gene ontologies, we elucidate that EPAC1 supports atumor-secreted network of angiogenic, cell adhesion and cell migratory pathways. Using confocal microscopy we show that signaling molecules involved in focaladhesion, including Paxillin and MENA, are down-regulated in the absence ofEPAC1, and electric cell substrate impedance sensing technique confirmed a rolefor EPAC1 on TNBC-induced endothelial cell permeability. Finally, to provide atranslational bridge, we studied iMVD and therapy response using a primary human tumor explant assay, CANscriptTM, which suggests a link between therapy-modulatedneovascularization and drug sensitivity. These data provide mechanistic insightinto the role of EPAC1 in regulating the tumor microenvironment, iMVD and cancer cell-induced angiogenesis, a dynamic mechanism under drug pressure that mayassociate to treatment failure.DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgy090 PMID: 29982410 