87. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2018 Jul 10. doi: 10.17219/acem/70798. [Epub ahead of print]Safety of adipose-derived cell (stromal vascular fraction - SVF) augmentation forsurgical breast reconstruction in cancer patients.Mazur S(1), Zołocińska A(2), Siennicka K(2), Janik-Kosacka K(2), Chrapusta A(3), Pojda Z(2).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Cancer and Reconstructive Surgery, Maria Skłodowska-CurieMemorial Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology, Warszawa, Poland.(2)Department of Regenerative Medicine, Maria Skłodowska-Curie Memorial CancerCenter and Institute of Oncology, Warszawa, Poland.(3)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Ludwik Rydygier MemorialSpecialized Hospital in Kraków, Poland.BACKGROUND: Progress in breast cancer surgery results in a decreased frequency ofmastectomy, in the early phases of cancer replaced by breast conserving therapy(lumpectomy). Increased popularity of breast reconstruction by fat or adiposestem cells (ASC)-enriched fat transfer raised uncertainty about the possible riskof increased cancer recurrence. In vitro studies suggest that locally secretedcytokines and reconstructed local blood vessels may stimulate cancer expansion orcancer de novo induction from glandular tissue remaining after lumpectomy.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the study was to evaluate the risk of cancerrecurrence in breast cancer patients related to the stromal vascular fraction(SVF) augmentation during autologous fat grafting for breast reconstruction.MATERIAL AND METHODS: The tumor recurrence ratio in 56 patients having the breastreconstructed with autologous ASC (transplanted as the subpopulation present inSVF) was compared with the frequency of tumor recurrence in 252 matched patients treated in clinics without subsequent breast reconstruction. Adipose tissue wascollected by the Coleman technique and split into 2 portions: one was used forbreast reconstruction, the other was enzymatically digested, and isolated cellswere used for the augmentation of fat implanted into the breast area. Cancerrecurrence in the experimental and matched control group was evaluated following 3-year-long observation time, and the statistical significance of difference incancer recurrence between the experimental and control group was evaluated.RESULTS: Cancer recurrence in the group of patients treated with ASC-enriched fatfor breast reconstruction was 3.7% and did not differ significantly from thecontrol group data (4.13%). No adverse effects of therapy were observed.CONCLUSIONS: Our study does not produce any data suggesting increased cancer riskfollowing breast reconstruction after a mastectomy or a lumpectomy combined with local radiotherapy. It may be concluded that an autologous transplantation of fataugmented with ASC is a safe and efficient procedure. Longer observation time andthe observation of larger numbers of patients would be useful for strengtheningthe conclusion.DOI: 10.17219/acem/70798 PMID: 29989681 