44. Breast Cancer. 2018 Jul 6. doi: 10.1007/s12282-018-0890-4. [Epub ahead of print]Quantitative assessment and risk factors for nipple-areolar complex malpositionafter nipple-sparing mastectomy.Makiguchi T(1)(2), Nakamura H(3), Fujii T(4), Yokoo S(5).Author information: (1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Gunma University Hospital,Maebashi, Japan. tmakiguchi@gunma-u.ac.jp.(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, and Plastic Surgery, GunmaUniversity Graduate School of Medicine, 3-39-22, Showa-machi, Maebashi, Gunma,371-8511, Japan. tmakiguchi@gunma-u.ac.jp.(3)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Gunma University Hospital,Maebashi, Japan.(4)Department of Integrative Center of General Surgery, Gunma UniversityHospital, Maebashi, Japan.(5)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Gunma University Hospital,Maebashi, Japan.PURPOSE: Nipple sparing mastectomy (NSM) for breast cancer preserves thenipple-areola complex (NAC) and has limited the extent of the scar, giving goodcosmetic results. However, NAC malposition may occur. The aim of this study is toevaluate NAC malposition after NSM and to determine factors associated withmalposition in two-stage reconstruction.METHODS: The subjects were 46 patients who underwent unilateral NSM, withoutcontralateral mastopexy or reduction surgery, in two-stage reconstruction usingan expander with implant or flap replacement. Vertical and horizontal NACmalposition and predictors of malposition were evaluated before and more than1 year after reconstruction surgery.RESULTS: The total amount of saline injected into the expander and aging weresignificant predictors of increased superior malposition of NAC before and morethan 1 year after reconstruction or implant surgery. In contrast, the amount ofsaline injected into the expander until 2 weeks after expander insertion was asignificant predictor of decreased superior NAC malposition. BMI was also astatistically significant predictor of decreased superior NAC malposition, butthis result was likely to have been due to the measurement method. Autologousreconstruction was a significant negative predictor of superior malposition atmore than 1 year after surgery. Superior NAC malposition resulting from fullexpansion of the expander improved by a mean vertical angle of 4.5° afterautologous reconstruction, but hardly improved after implant use. In autologousreconstruction, NAC tended to move slightly to the lateral side after autologous reconstruction, compared to implant use.CONCLUSIONS: Until 2 weeks after expander insertion, as much saline as possibleshould be injected to prevent superior NAC malposition. At full expansion,superior malposition of vertical angle > 4.5° may require repositioning surgery.DOI: 10.1007/s12282-018-0890-4 PMID: 29981009 