161. Cancer Med. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1002/cam4.1668. [Epub ahead of print]Incidence proportions and prognosis of breast cancer patients with bonemetastases at initial diagnosis.Gong Y(1)(2), Zhang J(3), Ji P(1)(2), Ling H(1), Hu X(1), Shao ZM(1)(2)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Surgery, Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer in Shanghai,Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.(2)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.(3)Department of Orthopedics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University Affiliated SixthPeople's Hospital, Shanghai, China.(4)Institutes of Biomedical Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.INTRODUCTION: Population-based data on the incidence and prognosis of bonemetastases at diagnosis of breast cancer are currently limited. Hence, weconducted this study to analyze the incidence proportions and prognostic factors of patients with breast cancer and bone metastases at the time of cancerdiagnosis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with primary invasive breast cancer and bonemetastases at initial diagnosis between 2010 and 2014 were identified using theSurveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) dataset and Fudan UniversityShanghai Cancer Center (FUSCC) cohort. Multivariable logistic regression wasperformed to identify predictors of the presence of bone metastases at diagnosis.Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to determine the effects ofeach variable on survival.RESULTS: Of 229, 195 patients from SEER database included in the analysis, 8295patients had bone metastases at initial diagnosis, reflecting 3.6% of the entire study population, and 65.1% of the subset with metastatic disease to any distant site. Patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative represented the highest incidence proportions amongpatients with metastatic disease (73.9%). Among entire cohort, multivariablelogistic regression identified eight factors as predictors of the presence ofbone metastases at diagnosis. Median OS for the patients with bone metastases in SEER and FUSCC cohorts was 30.0 and 68.2 months, respectively. Patients withHR-positive HER2-positive subtype had the longest median OS, and patients withtriple-negative subtype showed the shortest median OS. Multivariable Cox model inSEER cohort confirmed age, histology, grade, tumor subtype, extraosseousmetastatic sites, history of primary surgery, insurance status, marital status,and income as independent prognostic factors for both OS and BCSS.CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study provide population-based estimates of theincidence and prognosis for patients with bone metastases at initial diagnosis ofbreast cancer.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1668 PMID: 29984914 