Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare thatthey have no conflicts of interest with respect to publication of this paper.182. Oncotarget. 2018 Jun 19;9(47):28456-28473. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25466.eCollection 2018 Jun 19.Simultaneous delivery of olaparib and carboplatin in PEGylated liposomes imparts this drug combination hypersensitivity and selectivity for breast tumor cells.Novohradsky V(1), Zajac J(1), Vrana O(1), Kasparkova J(1), Brabec V(1).Author information: (1)Institute of Biophysics, Czech Academy of Sciences, Kralovopolska 135,CZ-61265 Brno, Czech Republic.Combination regiments involving platinum anticancer drugs and agents withunrelated mechanisms of action are a subject of widespread interest. Here, weshow that synergistic toxic action in cancer cells of combinations of antitumorplatinum drug carboplatin and effective PARP inhibitor olaparib is considerablyimproved if these combined drugs are encapsulated into liposomes. Notably, theformation of such nano-formulations, called OLICARB, leads to a markedenhancement of activity in human cancer cell lines (including those resistant to conventional platinum antitumor drugs) and selectivity towards tumor cells. Weused immunofluorescence analysis of γH2AX expression and examined DNA damage incancerous cells treated with the investigated compounds. We find that thesynergistic toxic effects in cancer cells of both drugs used in combination,nonencapsulated or embedded in the OLICARB nanoparticles, positively correlateswith DNA damage. These results also suggest that the enhancement of the toxiceffects of carboplatin by olaparib in cancer cells is a consequence of anaccumulation of cytotoxic lesions in DNA due to the inhibition of repair ofplatinated DNA augmented by the synergistic action of olaparib as an effectivePARP inhibitor. Our findings also reveal that the combination of olaparib withcarboplatin encapsulated in the OLICARB nanoparticles is particularly effectiveto inhibit the growth of 3D mammospheres. Collectively, the data provideconvincing evidence that the encapsulation of carboplatin and olaparib intoliposomal constructs to form the OLICARB nanoparticles may represent the viableapproach for the treatment of tumors with the aim to eliminate the possibleeffects of acquired resistance.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25466 PMCID: PMC6033346PMID: 29983873 