92. Int J Biol Sci. 2018 May 22;14(8):971-982. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.23350. eCollection2018.Predicting Potential Drugs for Breast Cancer based on miRNA and TissueSpecificity.Yu L(1), Zhao J(1), Gao L(1).Author information: (1)School of Computer Science and Technology, Xidian University, Xi'an, 710071,P.R. China.Network-based computational method, with the emphasis on biomolecularinteractions and biological data integration, has succeeded in drug developmentand created new directions, such as drug repositioning and drug combination. Drugrepositioning, that is finding new uses for existing drugs to treat morepatients, offers time, cost and efficiency benefits in drug development,especially when in silico techniques are used. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in multiple biological processes and have attracted much scientificattention recently. Moreover, cumulative studies demonstrate that the maturemiRNAs as well as their precursors can be targeted by small molecular drugs. Atthe same time, human diseases result from the disordered interplay of tissue- andcell lineage-specific processes. However, few computational researches predictdrug-disease potential relationships based on miRNA data and tissue specificity. Therefore, based on miRNA data and the tissue specificity of diseases, we proposea new method named as miTS to predict the potential treatments for diseases.Firstly, based on miRNAs data, target genes and information of FDA (Food and DrugAdministration) approved drugs, we evaluate the relationships between miRNAs and drugs in the tissue-specific PPI (protein-protein) network. Then, we construct a tripartite network: drug-miRNA-disease Finally, we obtain the potentialdrug-disease associations based on the tripartite network. In this paper, we takebreast cancer as case study and focus on the top-30 predicted drugs. 25 of them(83.3%) are found having known connections with breast cancer in CTD (ComparativeToxicogenomics Database) benchmark and the other 5 drugs are potential drugs for breast cancer. We further evaluate the 5 newly predicted drugs from clinicalrecords, literature mining, KEGG pathways enrichment analysis and overlappinggenes between enriched pathways. For each of the 5 new drugs, strongly supported evidences can be found in three or more aspects. In particular, Regorafenib(DB08896) has 15 overlapping KEGG pathways with breast cancer and their p-values are all very small. In addition, whether in the literature curation or clinicalvalidation, Regorafenib has a strong correlation with breast cancer. All thefacts show that Regorafenib is likely to be a truly effective drug, worthy of ourfurther study. It further follows that our method miTS is effective and practicalfor predicting new drug indications, which will provide potential values fortreatments of complex diseases.DOI: 10.7150/ijbs.23350 PMCID: PMC6036744PMID: 29989066 