191. Ann Burns Fire Disasters. 2017 Dec 31;30(4):261-263.Toxic epidermal necrolysis in a female with metastatic breast cancer treated withvinorelbine.Bazine A(1), Fetohi M(1), Namad T(1), El Benaye J(2), Ennouhi MA(3), MahfoudT(4), Ichou M(4).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology, Military Hospital Moulay Ismaïl of Meknès,Morocco.(2)Department of Dermatology, Military Hospital Moulay Ismaïl of Meknès, Morocco.(3)Department of Plastic Surgery, Military Hospital Moulay Ismaïl of Meknès,Morocco.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Military Hospital Mohammed V, Rabat, Morocco.Vinorelbine is an anticancer agent with high clinical efficacy for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Toxic epidermal necrolysis is a rare but seriouscutaneous adverse reaction associated with drug therapy. We hereby present a casereport of a patient with metastatic breast cancer, treated with vinorelbine, who developed toxic epidermal necrolysis. To the best of our knowledge, ours is thesecond case report describing this exceptional dermatologic emergency associated with vinorelbine. In June 2014, a 33-year-old female was treated for localizedbreast cancer. In December 2016, a brain magnetic resonance imaging revealedcerebral and cerebellar recurrence of the breast cancer. Whole brain radiationtherapy was administered and treatment with vinorelbine was subsequentlyinitiated. On day 3 of the first cycle of chemotherapy, she presented a generalmalaise and an itchy rash with conjunctivitis, oral ulcers and diffuse alopecia. The clinical diagnosis was toxic epidermal necrolysis due to vinorelbine. Thepatient was transferred to the burn unit. Treatment with intravenous steroids,topical steroids and desloratadine was initiated. She subsequently developedStaphylococcus aureus bacteremia and died of multi-organ failure. Toxic epidermalnecrolysis is an extremely rare, acute hypersensitivity reaction involving theskin and mucous membranes. Features more suggestive of toxic epidermal necrolysisare acute onset and rapid worsening of painful lesions of the skin and mucousmembranes. Specific treatment with active interventions should be practiced inthe context of an international and multicentre clinical study in order to givesufficient power for such trials in this rare disease.Publisher: La vinorelbine est un agent anticancéreux très efficace dans le cancerdu sein métastatique. La nécrolyse épidermique toxique est un effet indésirablemédicamenteux cutané rare mais grave. Nous présentons le cas d’une patiente avec un cancer du sein métastatique traité par vinorelbine, qui a développé unenécrolyse épidermique toxique. A notre connaissance, c’est le deuxième cas de la nécrolyse épidermique toxique due à la vinorelbine. En juin 2014, une femme de 33ans a été traitée pour un cancer mammaire localisé. En décembre 2016, elle aprésenté des métastases cérébrales et cérébelleuses. Une radiothérapieencéphalique a été administrée puis un traitement par vinorelbine a été initié.Au troisième jour du premier cycle de chimiothérapie, elle a présenté un malaise général et une éruption cutanée avec démangeaisons accompagnée de conjonctivite, d’ulcères buccaux et d’alopécie diffuse. Le diagnostic était en faveur de lanécrolyse épidermique toxique à la vinorelbine. La patiente a été transférée àl’unité de brûlure et a reçu des stéroïdes intraveineux et locaux et ladesloratadine. Elle a ensuite développé une bactériémie à Staphylococcus aureuset est décédée d’une défaillance multiviscérale. La nécrolyse épidermique toxiqueest une réaction d’hypersensibilité aiguë extrêmement rare touchant la peau etles muqueuses. Elle est évoquée devant l’apparition aiguë et l’aggravation rapidede lésions douloureuses de la peau et des muqueuses. Un traitement spécifiqueavec des interventions actives doit être recherché dans le cadre d’une étudeinternationale et multicentrique, afin de donner assez de puissance à de telsessais dans cette maladie rare.PMCID: PMC6033475PMID: 29983677 