Conflict of interest statement: The patient study was approved by the internalethical committee of Kantonsspital Baden and written informed consent wasobtained from all included patients.Not applicable.The authors declare that they have no competing interests.Springer Nature remains neutral with regard tojurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.170. Tomography. 2018 Jun;4(2):84-93. doi: 10.18383/j.tom.2018.00010.Enhanced Bone Metastases in Skeletally Immature Mice.Haley HR(1), Shen N(1), Qyli T(1), Buschhaus JM(1)(2), Pirone M(1), Luker KE(1), Luker GD(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI.(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan Medical School,Ann Arbor, MI.(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan MedicalSchool, Ann Arbor, MI.Bone constitutes the most common site of breast cancer metastases either at time of presentation or recurrent disease years after seemingly successful therapy.Bone metastases cause substantial morbidity, including life-threatening spinalcord compression and hypercalcemia. Given the high prevalence of patients withbreast cancer, health-care costs of bone metastases (>$20,000 per episode) imposea tremendous economic burden on society. To investigate mechanisms of bonemetastasis, we developed femoral artery injection of cancer cells as aphysiologically relevant model of bone metastasis. Comparing young (~6 weeks),skeletally immature mice to old (~6 months) female mice with closed physes(growth plates), we showed significantly greater progression of osteolyticmetastases in young animals. Bone destruction increased in the old mice followingovariectomy, emphasizing the pathologic consequences of greater bone turnover andnet loss. Despite uniform initial distribution of breast cancer cells throughout the hind limb after femoral artery injection, we observed preferential formation of osteolytic bone metastases in the proximal tibia. Tropism for the proximaltibia arises in part because of TGF-β, a cytokine abundant in both physes ofskeletally immature mice and matrix of bone in mice of all ages. We also showedthat age-dependent effects on osteolytic bone metastases did not occur in malemice with disseminated breast cancer cells in bone. These studies establish amodel system to specifically focus on pathophysiology and treatment of bonemetastases and underscore the need to match biologic variables in the model torelevant subsets of patients with breast cancer.DOI: 10.18383/j.tom.2018.00010 PMCID: PMC6035009PMID: 29984313 