130. J Cancer Educ. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1007/s13187-018-1394-9. [Epub ahead of print]Evaluation of Health Belief Model-Based Intervention on Breast Cancer ScreeningBehaviors among Health Volunteers.Ghaffari M(1), Esfahani SN(2), Rakhshanderou S(1), Koukamari PH(3).Author information: (1)Environmental and Occupational Hazards Control Research Center, School ofPublic Health, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(2)Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.(3)School of Public Health, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences,Tehran, Iran. Hosseinikoukamari.parisa@gmail.com.Breast cancer is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of deathamong women. Regarding the lack of knowledge about the cause of breast cancer andconsidering the fact that all women are prone to this disease, training onmethods of early diagnosis to reduce its complications is of great importance.Thus, this study aimed to determine the effect of education based on the healthbelief model on breast cancer screening behaviors in health volunteers of health centers in Isfahan. In this experimental study, 480 healthy volunteers wererandomly divided into two groups: the case (n = 240) and control (n = 240). Thetraining program was designed according to health belief model structures. Beforethe training interventional program, the Champion standard questionnaire andfunctional checklist were completed for both groups. A standard questionnaire wascompleted during three stages (before, immediately after, and 2 months after the training). The experimental group received the educational intervention duringeight sessions, and the collected data was eventually analyzed using the SPSSstatistical software version 16 with relevant statistical tests. Participation ofall individuals in the present research was voluntary and with informed consent. The results showed that mean scores of knowledge, perceived susceptibility,severity, benefits, barriers, self-efficacy, and behavioral intention related to breast self-examination (BSE) and mammography in the intervention groupsignificantly increased compared with those of the control group immediatelyafter and 2 months after educational intervention. There was a significantdifference between groups in BSE skill 2 months after the intervention, but therewas no significant difference between the two groups in BSE behavior andmammography 2 months after the intervention. The results confirmed the efficiencyand effectiveness of an educational intervention based on the health belief modelon improving factors affecting breast cancer screening behaviors.DOI: 10.1007/s13187-018-1394-9 PMID: 29987586 