64. Biomaterials. 2018 Oct;179:71-82. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.06.030. Epub2018 Jun 22.Studying biomineralization pathways in a 3D culture model of breast cancermicrocalcifications.Vidavsky N(1), Kunitake JA(1), Chiou AE(2), Northrup PA(3), Porri TJ(4), LingL(2), Fischbach C(5), Estroff LA(6).Author information: (1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca,NY, USA.(2)Nancy E. and Peter C. Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering, CornellUniversity, Ithaca, NY, USA.(3)National Synchrotron Light Source II, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton,NY, USA.(4)Institute of Biotechnology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.(5)Nancy E. and Peter C. Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering, CornellUniversity, Ithaca, NY, USA; Kavli Institute at Cornell for Nanoscale Science,Ithaca, NY, USA. Electronic address: cf99@cornell.edu.(6)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca,NY, USA; Kavli Institute at Cornell for Nanoscale Science, Ithaca, NY, USA.Electronic address: lae37@cornell.edu.Microcalcifications serve as diagnostic markers for breast cancer, yet theirformation pathway(s) and role in cancer progression are debated due in part to a lack of relevant 3D culture models that allow studying the extent of cellularregulation over mineralization. Previous studies have suggested processes rangingfrom dystrophic mineralization associated with cell death to bone-like mineraldeposition. Here, we evaluated microcalcification formation in 3D multicellularspheroids, generated from non-malignant, pre-cancer, and invasive cell lines fromthe MCF10A human breast tumor progression series. The spheroids with greatermalignancy potential developed necrotic cores, thus recapitulating spatiallydistinct viable and non-viable areas known to regulate cellular behavior intumors in vivo. The spatial distribution of the microcalcifications, as well astheir compositions, were characterized using nanoCT, electron-microscopy, andX-ray spectroscopy. Apatite microcalcifications were primarily detected withinthe viable cell regions and their number and size increased with malignancypotential of the spheroids. Levels of alkaline phosphatase decreased withmalignancy potential, whereas levels of osteopontin increased. These findingssupport a mineralization pathway in which cancer cells induce mineralization in amanner that is linked to their malignancy potential, but that is distinct fromphysiological osteogenic mineralization.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.06.030 PMID: 29980076 