Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.100. Public Health Rev. 2018 Jul 2;39:18. doi: 10.1186/s40985-018-0095-6. eCollection 2018.Public health implications of overscreening for carotid artery stenosis,prediabetes, and thyroid cancer.Nguyen BM(1), Lin KW(2), Mishori R(2).Author information: (1)Memorial Family Medicine Residency Program, 14023 Southwest Freeway, SugarLand, TX 77478 USA.(2)2Department of Family Medicine, Georgetown University School of Medicine, 4000Reservoir Road, N.W, Washington, D.C., 20007 USA.Background: Overscreening occurs when people without symptoms undergo tests fordiseases and the results will not improve their health. In this commentary, weexamine three examples of how campaigns to screen and treat specific vascular,metabolic, and oncologic diseases in asymptomatic individuals have producedsubstantial overdiagnosis and may well have contributed to more harm than good.These conditions were chosen because they may not be as well known as other casessuch as screening for breast or prostate cancer.Main text: Screening for carotid artery stenosis can be a lucrative businessusing portable equipment and mobile vans. While this fatty buildup of plaque inthe arteries of the neck is one risk factor for ischemic stroke, current evidencedoes not suggest that performing carotid dopplers to screen for CAS reduces theincidence of stroke or provide long-term benefits. After a positive screening,the follow-up procedures can lead to heart attacks, bleeding, strokes, and evendeath. Similarly, many organizations have launched campaigns for "prediabetesawareness." Screening for prediabetes with a blood sugar test does not decreasemortality or cardiovascular events. Identifying people with prediabetes couldlead to psychological stress and starting medication that may have significantside effects. Finally, palpating people's necks or examining them withultrasounds for thyroid cancer is common in many countries but ineffective inreducing mortality. Deadly forms of thyroid cancer are rare, and the overall5-year survival rate is excellent. Interventions from treatment for moreprevalent, less aggressive forms of thyroid cancer can lead to surgicalcomplications, radiation side effects, or require lifelong thyroid replacementtherapy.Conclusions: Screening for carotid artery stenosis, prediabetes, and thyroidcancer in an asymptomatic population can result in unnecessary, harmful, andcostly care. Systemic challenges to lowering overscreening include lack ofclinician awareness, examination of conflicts of interests, perverse financialincentives, and communication with the general public.DOI: 10.1186/s40985-018-0095-6 PMCID: PMC6027572PMID: 29988604 