36. Exp Cell Res. 2018 Jul 5. pii: S0014-4827(18)30398-7. doi:10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.07.008. [Epub ahead of print]Upregulated SCUBE2 expression in breast cancer stem cells enhances triplenegative breast cancer aggression through modulation of notch signaling andepithelial-to-mesenchymal transition.Chen JH(1), Kuo KT(2), Bamodu OA(3), Lin YC(4), Yang RB(5), Yeh CT(6), ChaoTY(7).Author information: (1)Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Tri-Service General Hospital,National Defense Medical Centre, Taipei, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of ClinicalMedicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei City, Taiwan.(2)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Shuang Ho Hospital,Taipei Medical University, New Taipei City, Taiwan; Division of Thoracic Surgery,Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei MedicalUniversity, Taipei, Taiwan.(3)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Cancer Center, Taipei MedicalUniversity-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan; Department of MedicalResearch and Education, Taipei Medical University, Shuang Ho Hospital, New TaipeiCity, Taiwan.(4)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.(5)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan; Instituteof Pharmacology, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.(6)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei MedicalUniversity, Taipei City, Taiwan; Department of Hematology and Oncology, CancerCenter, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan;Department of Medical Research and Education, Taipei Medical University, ShuangHo Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan. Electronic address: ctyeh@s.tmu.edu.tw.(7)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei MedicalUniversity, Taipei City, Taiwan; Department of Hematology and Oncology, CancerCenter, Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan;Department of Medical Research and Education, Taipei Medical University, ShuangHo Hospital, New Taipei City, Taiwan. Electronic address: 10575@s.tmu.edu.tw.BACKGROUND: Metastatic and/or recurrent breast carcinomas are leading causes ofcancer-related death worldwide. Breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs) have beenimplicated in cancer metastases and progression, thus, the need for the discoveryand development of effective BCSCs-specific therapies against metastatic andtriple negative breast cancer (TNBC). The expression of SCUBE2, originallyidentified in vascular endothelia, then in several non-endothelial cell types, isdownregulated in invasive breast carcinomas. However, the role of SCUBE2 in BCSCsremains unknown. This present study investigated the probable involvements ofSCUBE2 in BCSCs and TNBC metastasis.METHODS: The mRNA expression of SCUBE2, stemness and EMT markers in MDA-MB-231and Hs578T tumorspheres or adherent cells were evaluated by qRT-PCR andmicroarray analyses. Using gene overexpression, in vitro migration and invasionassays, as well as in vivo bioluminescence imaging, we evaluated the role ofSCUBE2 in MDA-MB-231 or Hs578T BCSCs. Western blot and cytotoxicity assays helpedidentify and validate SCUBE2 molecular target(s) and inhibitor(s).RESULTS: Concurrently increased SCUBE2 expression and cell motility were observedin TNBC tumorspheres compared to the parental adherent cells. SCUBE2overexpression augmented BCSCs motility in vitro, and enhanced TNBC metastasis invivo. While SCUBE2 overexpression activated Notch signaling its downregulationsuppressed Notch signal effectors NICD, Jagged 1, HEY1, and HES1.CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that SCUBE2 expression is upregulated in BCSCs,promote EMT and enhance TNBC metastasis by activating Notch signaling. Thisreveals a potential druggable molecular target and an effective therapeuticstrategy against metastatic and aggressive TNBC.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.07.008 PMID: 29981340 