124. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6617-0. [Epub ahead of print]ASBRS Great Debate: Sentinel Node Biopsy in Patients Over 70 Years of Age.Blair SL(1), Tsai C(2), Tafra L(3).Author information: (1)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. slblair@ucsd.edu.(2)University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.(3)Anne Arundel Medical Center, Annapolis, MD, USA.INTRODUCTION: Controversy over the need for sentinel node biopsy (SNB) continues to exist for the optimal treatment of breast cancer in patients ≥ 70 years ofage, especially in those with lower-risk disease. Clinicians must balancecompeting risks to give the best individualized care.METHODS: The American Society of Breast Surgeons (ASBrS) conducted a debatediscussing the pros and cons of routinely performing SNB in this age group.Small, randomized studies have been conducted that show no overall survivalbenefit to axillary intervention (either axillary dissection or SNB) in patients with clinically T1N0 estrogen receptor (ER)- and progesterone receptor(PR)-positive, HER2/neu-negative tumors. There may be a small local recurrencebenefit to axillary staging in patients who do not undergo radiation.Alternatively, axillary ultrasound, which carries a low false-negative rate forheavy disease burden, can be used to select patients who can avoid SNB.CONCLUSION: Surgeons must continue to individualize care of breast cancerpatients over 70 years of age in whom competing comorbidities may dictate care.No randomized clinical trials (RCTs) have found a survival benefit to axillarystaging in this low-risk population. However, in healthy patients, axillarystaging may improve local control, provide prognostic information, and help guidedecisions regarding adjuvant therapy such as chemotherapy and radiation. Ongoing RCTs are evaluating the benefit of SNB in patients with a negative axillaryultrasound. Until those results are available, clinicians and patients mustbalance the risk and benefits to determine if SNB adds significant value to theiroverall care.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6617-0 PMID: 29987610 