Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declaredthat no competing interest exists.95. Oncotarget. 2018 Jun 22;9(48):28877-28896. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.25608.eCollection 2018 Jun 22.Osteolytic cancer cells induce vascular/axon guidance processes in the bone/bone marrow stroma.Hensel J(1)(2), Wetterwald A(1)(2), Temanni R(3), Keller I(4)(5), RietherC(6)(7), van der Pluijm G(8), Cecchini MG(1)(2), Thalmann GN(1)(2).Author information: (1)Urology, Department for BioMedical Research, University of Bern, Bern,Switzerland.(2)Department of Urology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, Bern,Switzerland.(3)Biomedical Informatics Division, Research Branch, Sidra Medical and ResearchCenter, Doha, Qatar.(4)Department for Biomedical Research, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.(5)Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.(6)Tumor Immunology, Department for BioMedical Research, University of Bern,Bern, Switzerland.(7)Department of Medical Oncology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, Bern,Switzerland.(8)Department of Urology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, Netherlands.Prostate and breast cancers frequently metastasize to bone. The physiologicalbone homeostasis is perturbed once cancer cells proliferate at the bonemetastatic site. Tumors are complex structures consisting of cancer cells andnumerous stroma cells. In this study, we show that osteolytic cancer cells (PC-3 and MDA-MB231) induce transcriptome changes in the bone/bone marrowmicroenvironment (stroma). This stroma transcriptome differs from the previously reported stroma transcriptome of osteoinductive cancer cells (VCaP). While thebiological process "angiogenesis/vasculogenesis" is enriched in bothtranscriptomes, the "vascular/axon guidance" process is a unique process thatcharacterizes the osteolytic stroma. In osteolytic bone metastasis, angiogenesis is denoted by vessel morphology and marker expression specific forarteries/arterioles. Interestingly, intra-tumoral neurite-like structures were inproximity to arteries. Additionally, we found that increased numbers ofmesenchymal stem cells and vascular smooth muscle cells, expressing osteolyticcytokines and inhibitors of bone formation, contribute to the osteolytic bonephenotype. Osteoinductive and osteolytic cancer cells induce different types ofvessels, representing functionally different hematopoietic stem cell niches. Thisfinding suggests different growth requirements of osteolytic and osteoinductivecancer cells and the need for a differential anti-angiogenic strategy to inhibit tumor growth in osteolytic and osteoblastic bone metastasis.DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.25608 PMCID: PMC6034746PMID: 29988965 