43. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 6. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6608-1. [Epub ahead of print]Impact of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy on Breast Cancer Subtype: Does Subtype Change and, if so, How? : IHC Profile and Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy.De La Cruz LM(1), Harhay MO(2), Zhang P(3), Ugras S(4).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Division of Endocrine and Oncologic Surgery, Universityof Pennsylvania Health System, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(2)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia, PA, USA.(4)Department of Surgery, Division of Endocrine and Oncologic Surgery, Universityof Pennsylvania Health System, Philadelphia, PA, USA. stacy.ugras@gmail.com.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer subtype, as determined by the expression of estrogenreceptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR), together defined as hormonereceptor (HR) status, and the HER2/neu receptor (HER2), is important inpredicting prognosis and guiding therapy. Knowledge regarding how tumors evolveduring treatment and whether subtype is influenced by neoadjuvant chemotherapy(nCT) is limited. The purpose of this study was to compare the HR and HER2 statusbetween core needle biopsy and residual tumor after surgery of breast cancerpatients treated with nCT and to evaluate the impact of status change ontherapeutic management.METHODS: After institutional review board approval, we performed a retrospective review of all patients with a diagnosis of breast cancer who received nCT and hadtheir initial biopsy and post-nCT surgical specimens evaluated for tumor subtype between January 2009 and December 2014 at our institution. Immunohistochemistry(IHC) of ER, PR, HER2, and fluorescence in situ hybridization for HER2expression, when indicated, was performed using identical technique and measured by a single pathologist who specializes in breast pathology. Pre- and post-nCTsubtype was cross-tabulated to assess change. Standard diagnostic metrics werecomputed.RESULTS: Fifty-two patients with 54 cancers were identified to have their initialbiopsy and post-nCT surgical specimens evaluated for tumor subtype in identicalfashion. There was a complete pathologic response after nCT in 23 cancers(42.6%). Residual disease was noted in 31 cancers (57.4%). Five of these (16.1%) had a change in tumor subtype, of which four changes were based on IHC. HR statuschanged from positive to negative in two cases and from negative to positive inone case. HER2 status changed from positive to negative in one case and fromnegative to positive in one case. Subtype change led to treatment change in allfive cases, with either the addition or discontinuation of adjuvant therapies.CONCLUSIONS: Patients with breast cancer may experience alterations in theirtumor subtype after nCT. At our institution, this led to a change in adjuvanttreatment in 100% of such patients. This implies that retesting receptor statusof residual tumors after nCT should be routinely performed to tailor adjuvanttherapy after nCT.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6608-1 PMID: 29981025 