50. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2018 Sep;144(9):1825-1833. doi:10.1007/s00432-018-2700-y. Epub 2018 Jul 6.Providing integrative care in the pre-chemotherapy setting: a pragmaticcontrolled patient-centered trial with implications for supportive cancer care.Ben-Arye E(1)(2), Dahly H(3), Keshet Y(4), Dagash J(5)(6), Samuels N(7).Author information: (1)Integrative Oncology Program, The Oncology Service and Lin Medical center,Clalit Health Services, 35 Rothschild St., Haifa and Western Galilee District,Haifa, Israel. eranben@netvision.net.il.(2)Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.eranben@netvision.net.il.(3)Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.(4)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Western Galilee Academic College,Galilee, Israel.(5)Integrative Oncology Program, The Oncology Service and Lin Medical center,Clalit Health Services, 35 Rothschild St., Haifa and Western Galilee District,Haifa, Israel.(6)Palliative Care-Home Care Hospice, Clalit Health Services, Haifa and WesternGalilee District, Haifa, Israel.(7)Tal Center for Integrative Oncology, Institute of Oncology, Sheba MedicalCenter, Tel Hashomer, Israel.CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVES: To examine the impact of a complementary/integrativemedicine (CIM) program on quality of life (QoL)-related concerns among patientsscheduled for chemotherapy for breast and gynecologic cancer.METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve patients were referred by their oncology healthcareprofessional to an integrative oncology program, where CIM is provided as part ofpalliative/supportive care. CIM treatments were tailored to patients' preferencesand leading concerns, and for most included acupuncture and mind-body-spiritmodalities, which were usually co-administered in the week preceding the firstchemotherapy cycle. Patients attending the program were considered part of thetreatment group; those who chose to receive only standard supportive care ascontrols. Assessment of quantitative outcomes was conducted during the weekbefore chemotherapy; at 24 h before and after the treatment; and at 1 week posttreatment. For this purpose, the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS) andMeasure Yourself Concerns and Well-being questionnaire (MYCAW) were used.Qualitative assessment was based on short narratives at the end of the follow-up MYCAW questionnaire, which were analyzed with ATLAS.Ti software for systematiccoding.RESULTS: Of the 55 patients referred, 31 (56%) underwent CIM treatments, with 24 controls. Both groups had similar baseline demographic and cancer-relatedcharacteristics. QOL-related outcomes were significantly less impaired following CIM treatments for ESAS fatigue scores (P = 0.013), depression (P = 0.005), andfeeling of well-being (P = 0.027); and MYCAW scores for well-being (P = 0.005)and emotional distress (P = 0.02). Qualitative analysis detected both specificand non-specific effects of the CIM treatment regimen, most describing areduction in pre-chemotherapy anxiety.CONCLUSION: A patient-tailored CIM program, initiated within a week of the first chemotherapy cycle, may help reduce the severity of fatigue, depression, andimpaired well-being among patients with breast and gynecological cancers.DOI: 10.1007/s00432-018-2700-y PMID: 29980837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]