117. Horm Cancer. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1007/s12672-018-0342-9. [Epub ahead of print]RAGE and Its Ligands: Molecular Interplay Between Glycation, Inflammation, andHallmarks of Cancer-a Review.Palanissami G(1), Paul SFD(2).Author information: (1)Department of Human Genetics, Faculty of Biomedical Sciences, Technology andResearch, Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute (Deemed to beUniversity), Porur, Chennai, Tamilnadu, India.(2)Department of Human Genetics, Faculty of Biomedical Sciences, Technology andResearch, Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute (Deemed to beUniversity), Porur, Chennai, Tamilnadu, India. wise_soly@yahoo.com.Risk of cancer especially of colon, breast, and pancreas is high in diabetic and obese patients, with potential involvement of augmented expression of RAGE(receptor for advanced glycation end products) and its ligands, namely AGEs(advanced glycation end products), HMGB1 (high-mobility group box 1 protein), andS100 group of proteins. Studies have reported the involvement of RAGE activation by its ligands in growth and survival of cancers, including metastasis and poorprognosis. We propose that this receptor-ligand axis provides the molecular link between certain pre-existing states as hypoxia, hyperglycemia, glycation,inflammation, oxidative stress, and onset of cancers. The chronic inflammatory,hyperglycemic milieu accompanied by glycoxidative stress as in diabetes andobesity, concomitant with the formation of RAGE ligands, instigates RAGE andcancer stem cells, leading to the oncogenic transformation of normal andpre-malignant tissues towards development of neoplasms. We have aimed toelucidate the complete signalling map initiated upon RAGE-ligand splicing, fromoncogenesis to progression, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, invasion, cancerstem cell renewal, chemo-resistance, and cancer relapse. We have attributed thecomplex molecular functions of RAGE-ligand signalling cues to every aspect ofcancer promotion, explaining the central network in bridging glycation,inflammation, oxidation, and the hallmarks of cancer. Underlining the substantialrequisite for anti-neoplastic agents targeting RAGE and its ligands, we haveexplicitly discoursed RAGE and its allied components (AGEs, soluble RAGE, RAGEgene polymorphisms) as potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for prompt detection of cancers and implication in impending RAGE-ligand directed, novelcombinatorial, and targeted onco-therapeutics.DOI: 10.1007/s12672-018-0342-9 PMID: 29987748 