149. Rev Bras Ginecol Obstet. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1055/s-0038-1666809. [Epub ahead of print]Fine-needle Aspiration Cytology to Identify a Rare Mimicker of Breast Cancer:Plasma Cell Mastitis.Ortiz-Mendoza CM(1), Sánchez NAA(2), Dircio AC(2).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de losTrabajadores del Estado (ISSSTE) Hospital General Tacuba, Mexico City, Mexico.(2)Department of Pathology, ISSSTE Hospital General Tacuba, Mexico City, Mexico.There are rare benign diseases that can mimic malignant breast neoplasms in theclinical exam and in mammography. We evaluated the contribution of an accessible procedure to most clinicians, the fine-needle aspiration cytology, to identify a rare mimicker of malignant breast neoplasms. A type 2 diabetic 85-year-old femalepresented with a 6-month history of a left breast lump. The physical exam andmammography were compatible with breast cancer. Nevertheless, after fine-needleaspiration cytology, the diagnosis was plasma cell mastitis. Once this rarediagnosis was established, the tumor was extirpated, and the final histologicdiagnosis corroborated chronic plasma cell mastitis. The patient's postoperative evolution was uneventful, and no other treatment was needed. Fine-needleaspiration cytology could be a valuable tool to identify rare mimickers ofmalignant breast neoplasms.Publisher: Existem doenças benignas raras que podem mimetizar neoplasias malignasde mama no exame clínico e na mamografia. Avaliamos o valor de um procedimentoacessível para a maioria dos clínicos, a citologia por aspiração com agulha fina,para identificar um imitador raro de neoplasias malignas de mama. Uma mulher de85 anos com diabetes tipo 2 apresentou histórico de 6 meses de um nódulo no seio esquerdo. O exame físico e a mamografia foram compatíveis com câncer de mama. No entanto, após realizar uma citologia por aspiração com agulha fina, o diagnósticofoi mastite celular plasmática. Uma vez que este diagnóstico raro foiestabelecido, o tumor foi extraído e o diagnóstico histológico final corroborou amastite crônica das células plasmáticas. A paciente teve uma boa evoluçãopós-operatória, e nenhum outro tratamento foi necessário. A citologia poraspiração com agulha fina pode ser uma ferramenta valiosa para identificar osraros mimetizadores de neoplasias malignas da mama.Thieme Revinter Publicações Ltda Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1666809 PMID: 29986351 