128. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6601-8. [Epub ahead of print]Reducing Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema (BCRL) Through Prospective SurveillanceMonitoring Using Bioimpedance Spectroscopy (BIS) and Patient DirectedSelf-Interventions.Kilgore LJ(1), Korentager SS(1), Hangge AN(1), Amin AL(1), Balanoff CR(1), LarsonKE(1), Mitchell MP(2), Chen JG(3), Burgen E(3), Khan QJ(4), O'Dea AP(4), NyeL(4), Sharma P(4), Wagner JL(5).Author information: (1)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Kansas CancerCenter, Kansas City, KS, USA.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Kansas Cancer Center, KansasCity, KS, USA.(3)Office of Scholarly, Academic and Research Mentoring, University of KansasCancer Center, Kansas City, KS, USA.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Kansas Cancer Center, KansasCity, KS, USA.(5)Division of Breast Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Kansas CancerCenter, Kansas City, KS, USA. JWagner@kumc.edu.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) is a chronic progressivedisease that results from breast cancer treatment and nodal surgery. NCCNguidelines support baseline measurements with prospective assessment for earlydiagnosis and treatment. We sought to determine if baseline measurement withbioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) and serial postoperative evaluations provideearly detection amenable to conservative interventions that reduce BCRL.METHODS: Breast cancer patients with unilateral disease high-risk for BCRL from asingle institution were evaluated from November 2014 to December 2017. High risk was defined as axillary lymph node dissection with radiation and/or taxanechemotherapy. Patients received preoperative baseline BIS measurements followedby postoperative measurements with at least two follow-ups. Patients with BISresults that were 2 standard deviations above baseline (10 + points) started homeconservative interventions for 4-6 weeks. Postintervention measurements weretaken to assess improvement.RESULT: A total of 146 patients high-risk for BCRL were included. Forty-ninepatients (34%) developed early BCRL and started self-directed treatment. Fortypatients (82%) had elevated BIS measurements return to normal baseline range.Nine (6%) patients had persistent BCRL requiring referral for advanced therapy.Patients with persistent BCRL had significant nodal burden on surgical pathology;eight (89%) had N2/N3 disease. Six (76%) with BCRL refractory to conservativemeasures died of their breast cancer.CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrated that early conservative intervention forbreast cancer patients high risk for BCRL who were prospectively monitored byutilizing BIS significantly lowers rates of BCRL. These findings support earlyprospective screening and intervention for BCRL. Early detection withpatient-directed interventions improves patient outcomes and decreases the riskof persistent BCRL.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6601-8 PMID: 29987599 