103. Front Bioeng Biotechnol. 2018 Jun 22;6:70. doi: 10.3389/fbioe.2018.00070.eCollection 2018.Designing miRNA-Based Synthetic Cell Classifier Circuits Using Answer SetProgramming.Becker K(1), Klarner H(1), Nowicka M(1)(2), Siebert H(1).Author information: (1)Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Freie Universität Berlin,Berlin, Germany.(2)IMPRS-CBSC, Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Berlin, Germany.Cell classifier circuits are synthetic biological circuits capable ofdistinguishing between different cell states depending on specific cellularmarkers and engendering a state-specific response. An example are classifiers forcancer cells that recognize whether a cell is healthy or diseased based on itsmiRNA fingerprint and trigger cell apoptosis in the latter case. Binarization of continuous miRNA expression levels allows to formalize a classifier as a Boolean function whose output codes for the cell condition. In this framework, theclassifier design problem consists of finding a Boolean function capable ofreproducing correct labelings of miRNA profiles. The specifications of such afunction can then be used as a blueprint for constructing a corresponding circuitin the lab. To find an optimal classifier both in terms of performance andreliability, however, accuracy, design simplicity and constraints derived fromavailability of molcular building blocks for the classifiers all need to be takeninto account. These complexities translate to computational difficulties, socurrently available methods explore only part of the design space andconsequently are only capable of calculating locally optimal designs. We present a computational approach for finding globally optimal classifier circuits basedon binarized miRNA datasets using Answer Set Programming for efficient scanningof the entire search space. Additionally, the method is capable of computing all optimal solutions, allowing for comparison between optimal classifier designs andidentification of key features. Several case studies illustrate the applicabilityof the approach and highlight the quality of results in comparison with a stateof the art method. The method is fully implemented and a comprehensiveperformance analysis demonstrates its reliability and scalability.DOI: 10.3389/fbioe.2018.00070 PMCID: PMC6023966PMID: 29988359 