157. Oncogene. 2018 Jul 9. doi: 10.1038/s41388-018-0389-7. [Epub ahead of print]The Rac1 splice form Rac1b favors mouse colonic mucosa regeneration andcontributes to intestinal cancer progression.Kotelevets L(1)(2), Walker F(3)(4), Mamadou G(5), Lehy T(3), Jordan P(6), ChastreE(7)(8).Author information: (1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, UMR S 938, Centrede Recherche Saint-Antoine, Paris, France. larissa.kotelevets@inserm.fr.(2)Université Pierre-et-Marie-Curie Paris 6, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Site BâtimentKourilsky, Paris, France. larissa.kotelevets@inserm.fr.(3)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, U1149, CentreNational de la Recherche Scientifique-ERL8252, Centre de Recherche surl'Inflammation, Paris, France.(4)Assistance publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Nord Val de Seine Bichat-Claude Bernard, Department of Pathology, Paris, France.(5)TransCell-Lab Laboratory, Faculty of Medicine Xavier Bichat, University ofParis Diderot - Paris7, Paris, France.(6)Department of Human Genetics, National Health Institute, Doctor Ricardo Jorge,Lisbon, Portugal.(7)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, UMR S 938, Centrede Recherche Saint-Antoine, Paris, France. eric.chastre@inserm.fr.(8)Université Pierre-et-Marie-Curie Paris 6, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Site BâtimentKourilsky, Paris, France. eric.chastre@inserm.fr.We previously have identified the ectopic expression of Rac1b, an activated andnovel splice variant of Rac1, in a subset of human colorectal adenocarcinomas, aswell as in inflammatory bowel diseases and in colitis mouse model. Rac1boverexpression has been further evidenced in breast, pancreatic, thyroid,ovarian, and lung cancers. In this context, the aim of our study was toinvestigate the physiopathological implications of Rac1b in intestinalinflammation and carcinogenesis in vivo. The ectopic expression of Rac1b wasinduced in mouse intestinal epithelial cells after crossing Rosa26-LSL-Rac1b and villin-Cre mice. These animals were let to age or were challenged with dextransulfate sodium (DSS) to induce experimental colitis, or either receivedazoxymethane (AOM)/DSS treatment, or were bred with ApcMin/+ or Il10-/- mice totrigger intestinal tumors. Rac1b ectopic expression increased the intestinalepithelial cell proliferation and migration, enhanced the production of reactive oxygen species, and promoted the Paneth cell lineage. Although Rac1boverexpression alone was not sufficient to drive intestinal neoplasia, itenhanced Apc-dependent intestinal tumorigenesis. In the context of Il10 knockout,the Rac1b transgene strengthened colonic inflammation due to induced intestinalmucosa permeability and promoted cecum and proximal colon carcinogenesis. Incontrast, Rac1b alleviated carcinogen/acute inflammation-associated coloncarcinogenesis (AOM/DSS). This resulted at least partly from the early mucosalrepair after resolution of inflammation. Our data highlight the critical role of Rac1b in driving wound-healing after resolution of intestinal inflammation, andin cooperating with Wnt pathway dysregulation and chronic inflammation to promoteintestinal carcinogenesis.DOI: 10.1038/s41388-018-0389-7 PMID: 29985482 