20. IEEE Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control. 2018 Aug;65(8):1359-1369. doi:10.1109/TUFFC.2018.2839714. Epub 2018 May 23.Computer-Aided Theragnosis Based on Tumor Volumetric Information in BreastCancer.Gangeh MJ, Liu S, Tadayyon H, Czarnota GJ.OBJECTIVE: A computer-assisted technology has recently been proposed for theassessment of therapeutic responses to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced breast cancer (LABC). The system, however, extracted featuresfrom individual scans in a tumor irrespective of its relation to the other scans of the same patient, ignoring the volumetric information. This study addressesthis problem by introducing a novel engineered texton-based method in order toaccount for volumetric information in the design of textural descriptors torepresent tumor scans.METHODS: A noninvasive computer-aided-theragnosis (CAT) system was developed byemploying multiparametric QUS spectral and backscatter coefficient maps. Theproceeding was composed of two subdictionaries: one built on the "pretreatment"and another on "week " scans, where was 1, 4, or 8. The learned dictionary ofeach patient was subsequently used to compute the model (histogram of textons)for each scan of the patient. Advanced machine learning techniques including akernel-based dissimilarity measure to estimate the distances between"pretreatment" and "mid-treatment" scans as an indication of treatmenteffectiveness, learning from imbalanced data, and supervised learning weresubsequently employed on the texton-based features.RESULTS: The performance of the CAT system was tested using statistical tests of significance and leave-one-subject-out (LOSO) classification on 56 LABC patients.The proposed texton-based CAT system indicated significant differences in changesbetween the responding and nonresponding patient populations and achieved highaccuracy, sensitivity, and specificity in discriminating between the two patient groups early after the start of treatment, i.e., on weeks 1 and 4 of severalmonths of treatment. Specifically, the CAT system achieved the area under curveof 0.81, 0.83, and 0.85 on weeks 1, 4, and 8, respectively.CONCLUSION: The proposed texton-based CAT system accounted for the volumetricinformation in "pretreatment" and "mid-treatment" scans of each patient. It wasdemonstrated that this attribute of the CAT system could boost its performancecompared to the cases that the features were extracted from solely individualscans.DOI: 10.1109/TUFFC.2018.2839714 PMID: 29994306 