Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have noconflicts of interest to declare.178. Gland Surg. 2018 Jun;7(3):316-324. doi: 10.21037/gs.2018.05.03.Autologous reconstruction following nipple sparing mastectomy: a comprehensivereview of the current literature.Shay P(1), Jacobs J(1).Author information: (1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Mount Sinai Health System, NewYork, NY, USA.As surgical methods continue to evolve and patients become more educatedconsumers of their medical care, both oncologic breast surgeons andreconstructive plastic surgeons should understand the current options forsurgical management of breast cancer. This review evaluates the currentautologous breast reconstruction options following nipple sparing mastectomy(NSM). A comprehensive review of the current literature discussing autologousreconstruction after NSM was performed. Fat grafting alone has been used toreconstruct small to medium sized-breasts over multiple injection sessions.Goldilocks mastectomy-like reconstructions can be used for larger, more ptoticbreasts. Pedicled latissimus dorsi (LD) flaps can be used, but usually need to bemodified to ensure sufficient breast volume. While the lower abdominal tissueremains the most common donor site in free tissue transfer, other donor sites canbe used if there is insufficient volume or inadequate perforators. Periareolarincisions are associated with the highest rates of overall complications andnipple areola complex necrosis. It has not been determined whether implant-based or autologous reconstructions have lower complication rates. Both prior radiationand large, ptotic breasts present unique challenges during reconstruction.Overall, there is a high rate of patient satisfaction with breast reconstruction following NSM. Autologous breast reconstruction after NSM is a safe method ofbreast cancer surgical management with aesthetically excellent results. Multiple techniques have been described along the reconstructive ladder. Specialconsideration should be given to choices of incision, previously irradiatedbreasts, and large, ptotic breasts.DOI: 10.21037/gs.2018.05.03 PMCID: PMC6006021PMID: 29998081 