Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.72. Rev Bras Ginecol Obstet. 2018 Jul;40(7):403-409. doi: 10.1055/s-0038-1666997.Epub 2018 Jul 10.Value of Systemic Staging in Asymptomatic Early Breast Cancer.Soares GP(1), Pereira AAL(1), Vilas Boas MS(1), Vaisberg VV(1), Magalhães MCF(1),Linck RDM(1), Mano MS(1).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine, Instituto do Câncer do Estado de São Paulo, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.OBJECTIVE:  Metastases are rare in early breast cancer (EBC), and internationalguidelines recommend against routine systemic staging for asymptomatic patients. However, imaging exams remain widely employed in the clinical practice. The aimof the present study is to evaluate the value of imaging for systemic staging in EBC.METHODS:  A retrospective analysis of newly-diagnosed breast cancer (BC) patientswas performed. Clinical data including BC subtype, stage, presence of symptoms atdiagnosis and instrumental procedures performed for staging were recorded.RESULTS:  A total of 753 patients were included, with a median age of 57 years.The majority of the patients underwent at least 1 imaging procedure (91%); hadinvasive ductal carcinoma (83.5%); histological grade 2 (51.4%); stage II(61.8%); and luminal subtype (67.9%). Among the 685 (91%) patients who underwent any radiologic staging, distant metastases (DMs) were detected in 32 (4.7%). Inthe univariate analyses, stage IIb and pathological lymph node involvement (pN1) showed a statistically significant association with the presence of DMs, versusonly a trend for triple negative and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2(Her2) positive subtype. In an exploratory analysis performed in this samesubgroup, when unfavorable biology (triple negative or Her2 positive) waspresent, patients had a DM rate of 14.4%, one of the highest reported at thisstage of the disease.CONCLUSION:  Early breast cancer has a low prevalence of DM at the initialevaluation, and systemic staging of asymptomatic, unselected patients is notwarranted as a routine practice. However, we have identified subgroups ofpatients to whom a full staging could be indicated.Publisher:  Metástases são de ocorrência rara no câncer de mama precoce, e asdiretrizes internacionais não recomendam o estadiamento sistêmico de rotina para pacientes assintomáticos. Apesar disso, exames de imagem continuam sendolargamente empregados na prática clínica. O objetivo do presente estudo é avaliaro valor do estadiamento por imagem no câncer de mama precoce. MéTODOS:  Análiseretrospectiva de pacientes recém-diagnosticados com câncer de mama. Foramregistrados os dados clínicos dos pacientes, incluindo subtipo da neoplasia demama, estadiamento, presença de sintomas no momento do diagnóstico eprocedimentos de estadiamento. Um total de 753 pacientes foram incluídos, comidade média de 57 anos. Grande parte deles se submeteu a pelo menos um exame deimagem (91%); tinha carcinoma ductal invasivo (83,5%); grau histológico 2(51,4%); estádio II (61,8%); e subtipo luminal (67,9%). Entre os 685 (91%)pacientes que realizaram algum exame de imagem, metástases à distância foramdetectadas em 32 (4,7%). Na análise univariada, estádio IIb e acometimentolinfonodal (pN1) tiveram uma associação estatisticamente significativa com apresença de metástase, enquanto os subtipos triplo negativo e receptor tipo 2 do fator de crescimento epidérmico humano (Her2) positivo demonstraram apenas umatendência para a identificação de metástases. Na análise exploratória deste mesmosubgrupo, diante da presença de biologia desfavorável (triplo negativo e Her2positivo), os pacientes apresentaram uma taxa de metástase à distância de 14,4%, uma das mais altas relatadas nesse estádio. CONCLUSãO:  Neoplasia de mama precoceapresenta baixa baixa prevalência de metástase à distância no momento dodiagnóstico, e o estadiamento sistêmico de rotina de pacientes assintomáticos enão selecionados não é justificável. Contudo, identificamos subgrupos depacientes para os quais o estadiamento completo poderia ser indicado.Thieme Revinter Publicações Ltda Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1666997 PMID: 29991088 