35. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2018 Jul 11:e12890. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12890. [Epub aheadof print]Development and preliminary testing of a brief clinical tool to enable dailymonitoring of chemotherapy toxicity: The Daily Chemotherapy Toxicityself-Assessment Questionnaire.Maguire R(1), Kotronoulas G(2), Donnan PT(3), Paterson C(4), McCann L(1),Connaghan J(1), Di Domenico DGG(5), Kearney N(6).Author information: (1)Department of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Strathclyde,Glasgow, UK.(2)School of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.(3)Population Health Sciences, Medical Research Institute, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.(4)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen, UK.(5)School of Health, Wellbeing and Social Care, Faculty of Wellbeing, Educationand Language Studies, The Open University, Edinburgh, UK.(6)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Systems, University College Dublin,Dublin, Ireland.Close monitoring of chemotherapy toxicity can be instrumental in ensuring prompt symptom management and quality care. Our aim was to develop a brief clinical toolto enable daily assessment of chemotherapy toxicity and investigate/establish itscontent validity, feasibility/applicability, internal consistency and stability. Development of the Daily Chemotherapy Toxicity self-Assessment Questionnaire(DCTAQ) was based on an initial item pool created from two scoping reviews.Expert panel review (n = 15) and cognitive debriefing with patients with cancer(n = 7) were used to establish content validity. Feasibility/acceptability,applicability (self-report vs. interview-like administration), internalconsistency (KR-20) and test-retest reliability (at 1-hr intervals) of the DCTAQ were field-tested with 82 patients with breast or colorectal cancer receivingactive chemotherapy at eight hospitals. Initial development/content validitystages enabled item revisions and re-wording that led to a final, 11-item DCTAQversion with 10 core symptom items plus one open-ended "any other symptom" item. Feasibility and acceptability were demonstrated through the absence ofparticipant withdrawals, absence of missing data and no complaints about toollength. The DCTAQ was found to have modest internal consistency (KR-20 = 0.56),but very good test-retest reliability. The DCTAQ is a brief clinical tool thatallows for rapid and accurate daily assessments of chemotherapy toxicity inclinical practice.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12890 PMID: 29993150 