79. Life Sci. 2018 Jul 7. pii: S0024-3205(18)30389-8. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2018.07.012.[Epub ahead of print]Melatonin restrains angiogenic factors in triple-negative breast cancer bytargeting miR-152-3p: In vivo and in vitro studies.Marques JHM(1), Mota AL(1), Oliveira JG(2), Lacerda JZ(3), Stefani JP(1),Ferreira LC(1), Castro TB(1), Aristizábal-Pachón AF(4), Zuccari DAPC(5).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Molecular Research in Cancer - LIMC, Faculdade de Medicina deSao Jose do Rio Preto - FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil.(2)Graduate Program in Health Science, Faculdade de Medicina de Sao Jose do RioPreto - FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil; Laboratory of MolecularResearch in Cancer - LIMC, Faculdade de Medicina de Sao Jose do Rio Preto -FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil.(3)Graduate Program in Health Science, Faculdade de Medicina de Sao Jose do RioPreto - FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil; Graduate Program inBiosciences, Universidade Paulista-UNESP/IBILCE, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP,Brazil.(4)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics and Bioinformatics - LGMB, Faculdade deMedicina da Universidade de Sao Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, SP, Brazil.(5)Graduate Program in Health Science, Faculdade de Medicina de Sao Jose do RioPreto - FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil; Graduate Program inBiosciences, Universidade Paulista-UNESP/IBILCE, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP,Brazil; Laboratory of Molecular Research in Cancer - LIMC, Faculdade de Medicina de Sao Jose do Rio Preto - FAMERP, Sao Jose do Rio Preto, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: debora.zuccari@famerp.br.AIMS: Breast cancer represents the second most prevalent tumor-related cause ofdeath among women. Although studies have already been published regarding theassociation between breast tumors and miRNAs, this field remains unclear.MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are defined as non-coding RNA molecules, and are known to beinvolved in cell pathways through the regulation of gene expression. Melatonincan regulate miRNAs and genes related with angiogenesis. This hormone is producednaturally by the pineal gland and presents several antitumor effects. The aim of this study was to understand the action of melatonin in the regulation ofmiRNA-152-3p in vivo and in vitro.MAIN METHODS: In order to standardize the melatonin treatment in the MDA-MB-468cells, we carried out the cell viability assay at different concentrations. PCRArray plates were used to identify the differentiated expression of miRNAs after the treatment with melatonin. The relative quantification of the target geneexpression (IGF-IR, HIF-1α and VEGF) was performed by real-time PCR. For thetumor development, MDA-MB-468 cells were implanted in female BALB/c mice, andtreated or not treated with melatonin. Moreover, the quantification of the targetgenes protein expression was performed by immunocytochemistry andimmunohistochemistry.KEY FINDINGS: Relative quantification shows that the melatonin treatmentincreases the gene expression of miR-152-3p and the target genes, and decreasedprotein levels of the genes both in vitro and in vivo.SIGNIFICANCE: Our results confirm the action of melatonin on the miR-152-3pregulation known to be involved in the progression of breast cancer.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2018.07.012 PMID: 29990486 