Conflict of interest statement: Ethics approval for this study has been grantedby Wales REC3 (16/WA/0205). Informed consent will be obtained from allparticipants prior to their involvement in any study activities.Jane Hopkinson isan Independent Member (Non-executive Director) of the Velindre NHS TrustBoard.Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional affiliations.61. Br J Cancer. 2018 Jul 11. doi: 10.1038/s41416-018-0158-y. [Epub ahead of print]Abiraterone shows alternate activity in models of endocrine resistant andsensitive disease.Simigdala N(1), Pancholi S(1), Ribas R(1), Folkerd E(2), Liccardi G(1),Nikitorowicz-Buniak J(1), Johnston SR(3), Dowsett M(1)(2), Martin LA(4).Author information: (1)The Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research Centre, The Institute of CancerResearch, London, SW7 3RP, UK.(2)The Ralph Lauren Centre for Breast Cancer Research, The Royal MarsdenHospital, London, SW3 6JJ, UK.(3)Breast Unit, The Royal Marsden Hospital, London, SW3 6JJ, UK.(4)The Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research Centre, The Institute of CancerResearch, London, SW7 3RP, UK. lesley-ann.martin@icr.ac.uk.BACKGROUND: Resistance to endocrine therapy remains a major clinical problem inthe treatment of oestrogen-receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer. Studies showandrogen-receptor (AR) remains present in 80-90% of metastatic breast cancersproviding support for blockade of AR-signalling. However, clinical studies withabiraterone, which blocks cytochrome P450 17A1 (CYP17A1) showed limited benefit.METHODS: In order to address this, we assessed the impact of abiraterone oncell-viability, cell-death, ER-mediated transactivation and recruitment to targetpromoters. together with ligand-binding assays in a panel of ER+ breast cancercell lines that were either oestrogen-dependent, modelling endocrine-sensitivedisease, or oestrogen-independent modelling relapse on an aromatase inhibitor.The latter, harboured wild-type (wt) or naturally occurring ESR1 mutations.RESULTS: Similar to oestrogen, abiraterone showed paradoxical impact onproliferation by stimulating cell growth or death, depending on whether the cellsare hormone-dependent or have undergone prolonged oestrogen-deprivation,respectively. Abiraterone increased ER-turnover, induced ER-mediatedtransactivation and ER-degradation via the proteasome.CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirms the oestrogenic activity of abiraterone andhighlights its differential impact on cells dependent on oestrogen for theirproliferation vs. those that are ligand-independent and harbour wt or mutantESR1. These properties could impact the clinical efficacy of abiraterone inbreast cancer.DOI: 10.1038/s41416-018-0158-y PMID: 29991699 