Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.168. Br J Surg. 2018 Jul 12. doi: 10.1002/bjs.10888. [Epub ahead of print]Survival and risk of breast cancer recurrence after breast reconstruction withdeep inferior epigastric perforator flap.Svee A(1), Mani M(1), Sandquist K(1), Audolfsson T(2), Folkvaljon Y(3), IsernAE(4)(5), Ringberg A(6), Manjer J(7), Falk-Delgado A(1), Wärnberg F(3).Author information: (1)Department of Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.(2)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Oslo University Hospital,Oslo, Norway.(3)Department of Surgery, Uppsala University Hospital and Department of Surgical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.(4)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of Scienceand Technology, Trondheim, Norway.(5)Volvat Stokkan, Trondheim, Norway.(6)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Lund University, Malmö,Sweden.(7)Department of Surgery, Skåne University Hospital Malmö, Lund University,Malmö, Sweden.BACKGROUND: Women who undergo autologous breast reconstruction have been reportedto have an increased risk of breast cancer recurrence compared with those whohave mastectomy alone. It has been suggested that more extensive surgery possiblyactivates dormant micrometastases. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether delayed unilateral deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap reconstructionafter mastectomy increases the risk of breast cancer recurrence or affectsmortality among women previously treated for breast cancer.METHODS: This was a matched retrospective cohort study including women with aprevious unilateral invasive breast cancer who received a delayed DIEP flapbreast reconstruction and a control cohort of individually matched women withunilateral breast cancer who underwent mastectomy but no autologous breastreconstruction. Matching criteria comprised: year of diagnosis (+/-3 years), age at diagnosis (+/-5 years), type of cancer and demographic region. The primaryendpoints were local recurrence or distant metastasis, and overall mortality was a secondary endpoint. Absolute risk of recurrent disease and mortality wasanalysed, and relative risks were estimated using Cox proportional hazardsanalysis.RESULTS: There were 225 women in the DIEP cohort and 450 in the no-DIEP cohort.The median follow-up time was 125 months. There was no difference in absoluterisk of recurrence between the cohorts. The hazard ratio for breast cancerrecurrence in DIEP versus no-DIEP cohorts was 0·76 (95 per cent c.i. 0·47 to1·21).CONCLUSION: There is no increased risk in breast cancer recurrence after delayed DIEP flap reconstruction compared with mastectomy alone.© 2018 BJS Society Ltd Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/bjs.10888 PMID: 29999520 