24. IEEE Trans Med Imaging. 2018 Mar 28. doi: 10.1109/TMI.2018.2820199. [Epub aheadof print]Whole-Slide Mitosis Detection in H&E Breast Histology Using PHH3 as a Referenceto Train Distilled Stain-Invariant Convolutional Networks.Tellez D, Balkenhol M, Otte-Holler I, van de Loo R, Vogels R, Bult P, Wauters C, Vreuls W, Mol S, Karssemeijer N, Litjens G, van der Laak J, Ciompi F.Manual counting of mitotic tumor cells in tissue sections constitutes one of the strongest prognostic markers for breast cancer. This procedure, however, istime-consuming and error-prone. We developed a method to automatically detectmitotic figures in breast cancer tissue sections based on convolutional neuralnetworks (CNNs). Application of CNNs to hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stainedhistological tissue sections is hampered by: (1) noisy and expensive referencestandards established by pathologists, (2) lack of generalization due to stainingvariation across laboratories, and (3) high computational requirements needed to process gigapixel whole-slide images (WSIs). In this paper, we present a methodto train and evaluate CNNs to specifically solve these issues in the context ofmitosis detection in breast cancer WSIs. First, by combining image analysis ofmitotic activity in phosphohistone-H3 (PHH3) restained slides and registration,we built a reference standard for mitosis detection in entire H&E WSIs requiring minimal manual annotation effort. Second, we designed a data augmentationstrategy that creates diverse and realistic H&E stain variations by modifying thehematoxylin and eosin color channels directly. Using it during training combined with network ensembling resulted in a stain invariant mitosis detector. Third, weapplied knowledge distillation to reduce the computational requirements of themitosis detection ensemble with a negligible loss of performance. The system was trained in a single-center cohort and evaluated in an independent multicentercohort from The Cancer Genome Atlas on the three tasks of the Tumor ProliferationAssessment Challenge (TUPAC). We obtained a performance within the top-3 bestmethods for most of the tasks of the challenge.DOI: 10.1109/TMI.2018.2820199 PMID: 29994086 