Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors have noconflicts of interest to declare.182. Gland Surg. 2018 Jun;7(3):273-287. doi: 10.21037/gs.2017.09.02.Nipple sparing mastectomy techniques: a literature review and an inframammarytechnique.Ashikari AY(1)(2)(3), Kelemen PR(1)(2)(3), Tastan B(1)(2), Salzberg CA(4),Ashikari RH(1)(2)(3).Author information: (1)Ashikari Breast Center, St. John's Riverside Health System, Yonkers, NY, USA.(2)NYP/Hudson Valley Hospital, Cortlandt Manor, NY, USA.(3)Department of Surgery, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY, USA.(4)Department of Plastic Surgery, Icahn School of Medicine, Mount Sinai HealthSystem, New York, NY, USA.Nipple sparing mastectomy (NSM) has quickly become an accepted technique forpatients with selected cancers and for risk reducing surgery. Much of itssurgical acceptance over the last decade has been based on the low risk of nippleareolar complex (NAC) occurrence in breast cancer patients. Improved patientsatisfaction due to improved cosmetic outcomes with reconstruction have alsodriven its popularity. We reviewed current English journals to determine the NSM techniques which achieve the lowest complications, best outcomes, and bestpatient satisfaction. We researched studies showing reductions in complicationswith improved surgical techniques and patient selection which have beenimplicated in improved results. In the studies reviewed, incision placement, awayfrom the nipple, resulted in the lowest rates of ischemic nipple complicationsand the best cosmetic outcomes. The effect of other factors such as surgeonexperience and thickness of skin flap development were more difficult to prove.Leaving a 2-3 mm rim of tissue around the nipple bundle was shown to helppreserve the nipple vascularity. Lower complication rates with improved outcomes and patient satisfaction were reported in the literature in patients with B orsmaller cup sizes, non-smokers, and patients with lower body mass index (BMI).Incision placement, away from the nipple, with preservation of a 2-3 mm rim oftissue around the nipple bundle along with careful patient selection were themost significant variables reviewed which helped to lower complications rates of NSM. Coordinated surgical planning with the breast and plastic surgeons todetermine the best surgical approach for each individual patient is necessary to obtain the best results. Although short-term oncologic follow-up seems to beacceptable, longer follow-up will still be needed to define the best breastcancer surgical candidates for the nipple sparing approach.DOI: 10.21037/gs.2017.09.02 PMCID: PMC6006015PMID: 29998077 