Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest todeclare.73. Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces. 2018 Jul 4;170:712-717. doi:10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.07.001. [Epub ahead of print]Insights on the transport of tamoxifen by gold nanoparticles for MCF-7 breastcancer cells based on SERS spectroscopy.Teixeira RAR(1), Lataliza AAB(2), Raposo NRB(2), Costa LAS(3), Sant'Ana AC(4).Author information: (1)Laboratório de Nanoestruturas Plasmônicas, Instituto de Ciências Exatas,Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.(2)Núcleo de Pesquisa e Inovação em Ciências da Saúde, Faculdade de Farmácia,Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.(3)Núcleo de Estudos Químicos Computacionais, Instituto de Ciências Exatas,Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.(4)Laboratório de Nanoestruturas Plasmônicas, Instituto de Ciências Exatas,Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil. Electronicaddress: acsantan64@gmail.com.Gold nanoparticles (AuNP) were synthesized and modified with anti-folate receptorantibody (AB), folic acid (FA), crystal violet (CV), poly (ethyleneglycol) methylether thiol and the antineoplastic drug tamoxifen (TAM). Such a preparation wasincubated in vitro with MCF-7 human breast cancer cells, showing a decrease inthe TAM dosage for the reduction of cell viability. The adsorption of TAM on goldsurface was investigated by surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) spectroscopyand the assignment based on Density Functional Theory calculations showed thatthe ether moiety was involved in the interactions with the metal. Such a chemicalaffinity was correlated with the carrying of TAM in the biological media. CV was included in the preparation as a molecular probe for SERS spectroscopy, whosesignal was monitored to analyse the efficiency of the modified AuNP in the targetof neoplastic cells. The results showed AB, FA and TAM components hadcomplementary roles in the cell recognition and, therefore, in the efficiency of the drug carrier nanosystem.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2018.07.001 PMID: 29990878 