76. Soc Sci Med. 2018 Sep;212:17-25. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.06.030. Epub 2018 Jul 2.The effects of culturally targeted patient decision aids on medical consultation preparation for Hispanic women in the U.S.: Results from four randomizedexperiments.Alden DL(1), Friend J(2), Fraenkel L(3), Jibaja-Weiss M(4).Author information: (1)University of Hawai`i, United States. Electronic address: dalden@hawaii.edu.(2)College of St. Benedict and St. John's University, United States.(3)Yale School of Medicine, United States.(4)Baylor College of Medicine, United States.RATIONALE: Do culturally targeted patient decision aids (DAs) better preparelower-middle and middle-class Hispanic American women for medical decision makingcompared to DAs designed for the general population? Health promotion evidenceindicates that inclusion of cultural values, imagery, linguistics, and healthdata in a DA will improve ethnic patients' preparation relative to a generic DA; yet, this hypothesis remains untested.METHOD: Four experiments examined consultation preparation effects of culturally targeted versus generic DAs for Hispanic women living in the United States.Drawing on highly rated online DAs, an experienced Hispanic content developer andHispanic focus groups worked with researchers to develop culturally targeteddigital DAs. Online panels of self-identified Hispanic women in the U.S. wererandomly assigned to a targeted or generic DA as part of a scenario-basedphysician consultation for advanced diabetes (Study 1) or early stage breastcancer (Studies 2-4).RESULTS: Manipulation checks showed high awareness of cultural information in thetargeted DA group. Despite efforts to rule out confounds that could account fornull effects, DA cultural targeting did not increase knowledge, decisionpreparedness, or empowerment or reduce decision conflict in the four randomizedexperiments. Only individual difference variables (e.g., group interdependence)consistently predicted enhanced DA consultation preparation effects. Relatedresearch indicates that culture at the group level may exert less influence when individuals think deliberatively, feel less constrained by limited resources suchas time, understand processing objectives, and/or are primed with task-specificschema/norms.CONCLUSION: Given deeper deliberation and clearly primed processing objectives,personal experiences and task-related schema/norms may have significantly reducedthe effects of cultural targeting. Consistent findings from four studies suggest that culturally targeted DAs may not better prepare Hispanic women in the U.S.for medical decision making than generic versions designed for the broaderpopulation.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2018.06.030 PMID: 29990671 