62. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2018 Jul 10. pii: ERC-18-0179. doi: 10.1530/ERC-18-0179.[Epub ahead of print]Biological and clinical impact of imbalanced progesterone receptor isoform ratiosin breast cancer.Lamb CA(1), Fabris VT(2), Jacobsen B(3), Molinolo AA(4), Lanari C(5).Author information: (1)C Lamb, Laboratorio de Carcinogénesis Hormonal, Instituto de Biología yMedicina Experimental, Buenos Aires, Argentina.(2)V Fabris, Laboratorio de Carcinogénesis Hormonal, Instituto de Biología yMedicina Experimental, Buenos Aires, Argentina.(3)B Jacobsen, Department of Pathology, University of Colorado at Denver -Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, United States.(4)A Molinolo, Biorepository and Tissue Technology Shared Resource, University ofCalifornia San Diego Moores Cancer Center, La Jolla, United States.(5)C Lanari, Laboratorio de Carcinogénesis Hormonal, Instituto de Biología yMedicina Experimental, Buenos Aires, Argentina clanari@dna.uba.ar.There is a consensus that progestins and thus their cognate receptor molecules,the progesterone receptors (PR), are essential in the development of the adultmammary gland and regulators of proliferation and lactation. However, a role for natural progestins in breast carcinogenesis remains poorly understood. A hint to that possible role came from studies in which the synthetic progestinmedroxyprogesterone acetate was associated with an increased breast cancer riskin women under hormone replacement therapy. However, progestins have been alsoused for breast cancer treatment and to inhibit the growth of severalexperimental breast cancer models. More recently, PR have been shown to beregulators of estrogen receptor signaling. With all this information, thequestion is how can we target PR, and if so, which patients may benefit from suchan approach? PR are not single unique molecules. Two main PR isoforms have beencharacterized, PRA and PRB, that exert different functions and the relativeabundance of one isoform respect to the other determines the response of PRagonists and antagonists. Immunohistochemistry with standard antibodies againstPR do not discriminate between isoforms. In this review, we summarize the currentknowledge on the expression of both PR isoforms in mammary glands, inexperimental models of breast cancer and in breast cancer patients, to betterunderstand how the PRA/PRB ratio can be exploited therapeutically to designpersonalized therapeutic strategies.DOI: 10.1530/ERC-18-0179 PMID: 29991638 