65. Mol Cancer Res. 2018 Jul 10. doi: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-18-0410. [Epub ahead ofprint]Taxol Induces Brk-dependent Prosurvival Phenotypes in TNBC Cells through anAhR/GR/HIF-driven Signaling Axis.Regan Anderson TM(1), Ma S(2), Perez Kerkvliet C(1), Peng Y(2), Helle TM(1),Krutilina RI(3), Raj GV(2), Cidlowski JA(4), Ostrander JH(1), Schwertfeger KL(5),Seagroves TN(3), Lange CA(6).Author information: (1)Division of Hematology, Oncology, and Transplantation, Departments of Medicineand Pharmacology and The Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota,Minneapolis, Minnesota.(2)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,Dallas, Texas.(3)Department of Pathology, University of Tennessee Health Science Center,Memphis, Tennessee.(4)Laboratory of Signal Transduction, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, NIH, Department of Health and Human Services, Research Triangle Park,North Carolina.(5)Department of Lab Medicine and Pathology, Masonic Cancer Center and Center forImmunology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.(6)Division of Hematology, Oncology, and Transplantation, Departments of Medicineand Pharmacology and The Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota,Minneapolis, Minnesota. lange047@umn.edu.The metastatic cascade is a complex process that requires cancer cells to survivedespite conditions of high physiologic stress. Previously, cooperation betweenthe glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and hypoxia-inducible factors (HIF) was reportedas a point of convergence for host and cellular stress signaling. These studiesindicated p38 MAPK-dependent phosphorylation of GR on Ser134 and subsequentp-GR/HIF-dependent induction of breast tumor kinase (PTK6/Brk), as a mediator of aggressive cancer phenotypes. Herein, p-Ser134 GR was quantified in human primarybreast tumors (n = 281) and the levels of p-GR were increased in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) relative to luminal breast cancer. Brk was robustly induced following exposure of TNBC model systems to chemotherapeutic agents (Taxol or5-fluorouracil) and growth in suspension [ultra-low attachment (ULA)]. Notably,both Taxol and ULA resulted in upregulation of the Aryl hydrocarbon receptor(AhR), a known mediator of cancer prosurvival phenotypes. Mechanistically, AhRand GR copurified and following chemotherapy and ULA, these factors assembled at the Brk promoter and induced Brk expression in an HIF-dependent manner.Furthermore, Brk expression was upregulated in Taxol-resistant breast cancer(MCF-7) models. Ultimately, Brk was critical for TNBC cell proliferation andsurvival during Taxol treatment and in the context of ULA as well as for basalcancer cell migration, acquired biological phenotypes that enable cancer cells tosuccessfully complete the metastatic cascade. These studies nominate AhR as ap-GR binding partner and reveal ways to target epigenetic events such as adaptiveand stress-induced acquisition of cancer skill sets required for metastaticcancer spread.Implication: Breast cancer cells enlist intracellular stressresponse pathways that evade chemotherapy by increasing cancer cell survival and promoting migratory phenotypes. Mol Cancer Res; 1-12. ©2018 AACR.©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.DOI: 10.1158/1541-7786.MCR-18-0410 PMID: 29991529 