1. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Jul 10;19(7). pii: E2011. doi: 10.3390/ijms19072011.Crosstalk between Notch, HIF-1α and GPER in Breast Cancer EMT.De Francesco EM(1)(2), Maggiolini M(3), Musti AM(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, University ofCalabria, 87036 Rende, Italy. ernestina.defrancesco@manchester.ac.uk.(2)Breast Cancer Now Research Unit, Division of Cancer Sciences, ManchesterCancer Research Centre, University of Manchester, Wilmslow Road, Manchester M204GJ, UK. ernestina.defrancesco@manchester.ac.uk.(3)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, University ofCalabria, 87036 Rende, Italy. marcellomaggiolini@yahoo.it.(4)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Nutritional Sciences, University ofCalabria, 87036 Rende, Italy. annamaria.musti@unical.it.The Notch signaling pathway acts in both physiological and pathologicalconditions, including embryonic development and tumorigenesis. In cancerprogression, diverse mechanisms are involved in Notch-mediated biologicalresponses, including angiogenesis and epithelial-mesenchymal-transition (EMT).During EMT, the activation of cellular programs facilitated by transcriptionalrepressors results in epithelial cells losing their differentiated features, likecell⁻cell adhesion and apical⁻basal polarity, whereas they gain motility. As itconcerns cancer epithelial cells, EMT may be consequent to the evolution ofgenetic/epigenetic instability, or triggered by factors that can act within thetumor microenvironment. Following a description of the Notch signaling pathwayand its major regulatory nodes, we focus on studies that have given insights intothe functional interaction between Notch signaling and either hypoxia or estrogenin breast cancer cells, with a particular focus on EMT. Furthermore, we describe the role of hypoxia signaling in breast cancer cells and discuss recent evidence regarding a functional interaction between HIF-1&alpha; and GPER in both breastcancer cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). On the basis of thesestudies, we propose that a functional network between HIF-1&alpha;, GPER andNotch may integrate tumor microenvironmental cues to induce robust EMT in cancer cells. Further investigations are required in order to better understand howhypoxia and estrogen signaling may converge on Notch-mediated EMT within thecontext of the stroma and tumor cells interaction. However, the data discussedhere may anticipate the potential benefits of further pharmacological strategies targeting breast cancer progression.DOI: 10.3390/ijms19072011 PMID: 29996493 