133. Rapid Commun Mass Spectrom. 2018 Jul 12. doi: 10.1002/rcm.8229. [Epub ahead ofprint]LESA-nano-ESI based lipidomics for in-situ analysis of tumor cells with multidrugresistance.Zong L(1)(2), Pi Z(1), Liu S(1), Xing J(1), Liu Z(1), Song F(1).Author information: (1)National Center of Mass Spectrometry in Changchun, Jilin Province KeyLaboratory of Chinese Medicine Chemistry and Mass Spectrometry, ChangchunInstitute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun, 130022,China.(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100039, China.RATIONALE: Multidrug resistance (MDR) occurs frequently and has a major challengein tumor treatment. Lipid composition in cell membrane and the redox balance are closely associated with the development of MDR. The liquid extraction surfaceanalysis in combination with mass spectrometry (LESA-MS) has the characteristics of minimal sample preparation, rapid analysis, high sensitivity and highthroughput, and has obtained wide applications.METHODS: The LESA-MS was employed to in situ determine the lipids and otherspecific metabolites of intact MCF-7/ADR cells (adriamycin-resistant breastcancer cells) and its parental MCF-7/S cells grew on the glass slide. The in-situatomic force microscopy was used to observe the morphology of tumor cells before and after extraction. Multivariate statistical analysis was used to investigatethe potential lipid biomarkers correlated with the MDR. Moreover, the cellmembrane fluidity and potential were determined.RESULTS: The changes in the level of the lipids were closely correlated with the multidrug resistance of MCF-7/S cells. Moreover, the less cell membrane fluidity and higher cell membrane potential were observed and thus demonstrated thechanges of cell membrane induced by multidrug resistance. And the ratios ofGSH/GSSG, ATP/ADP and ATP/AMP were significantly higher in MCF-7/ADR cellsrelative to MCF-7/S cells.CONCLUSIONS: Less cell membrane fluidity and higher cell membrane potentialcaused by the changes of lipids composition, enhanced anti-oxidative ability and energy generation were involved in the development of the MDR. The specificalterations identified in this study may provide more information for overcoming MDR.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/rcm.8229 PMID: 30003601 