149. Biomed Res Int. 2018 May 30;2018:2610801. doi: 10.1155/2018/2610801. eCollection 2018.Use of Quantitative Morphological and Functional Features for Assessment ofAxillary Lymph Node in Breast Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic ResonanceImaging.Fusco R(1), Sansone M(2), Granata V(1), Di Bonito M(3), Avino F(4), CatalanoO(1), Botti G(3), Petrillo A(1).Author information: (1)Radiology Unit, "Dipartimento di Supporto ai Percorsi Oncologici AreaDiagnostica, Istituto Nazionale Tumori-IRCCS-Fondazione G. Pascale", Via Mariano Semmola, Naples, Italy.(2)Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technologies, University "Federico II" of Naples, Via Claudio, Naples, Italy.(3)Pathology Unit, "Dipartimento di Supporto ai Percorsi Oncologici AreaDiagnostica, Istituto Nazionale Tumori-IRCCS-Fondazione G. Pascale", Via Mariano Semmola, Naples, Italy.(4)Senology Surgery Unit, "Dipartimento Corp-S Assistenziale e di Ricerca deiPercorsi Oncologici del Distretto Toracico, Istituto NazionaleTumori-IRCCS-Fondazione G. Pascale", Via Mariano Semmola, Naples, Italy.Background: Axillary lymph-node assessment is considered one of the mostimportant prognostic factors concerning breast cancer survival.Objective: We investigated the discriminative power of morphological andfunctional features in assessing the axillary lymph node.Methods: We retrospectively analysed data from 52 consecutive patients whoundergone DCE-MRI and were diagnosed with primary breast carcinoma: 94 lymphnodes were identified. Per each lymph node, we extracted morphological features: circularity, compactness, convexity, curvature, elongation, diameter,eccentricity, irregularity, radial length, entropy, rectangularity, roughness,smoothness, sphericity, spiculation, surface, and volume. Moreover, we extracted functional features: time to peak (TTP), maximum signal difference (MSD), wash-inintercept (WII), wash-out intercept (WOI), wash-in slope (WIS), wash-out slope(WOS), area under gadolinium curve (AUGC), area under wash-in (AUWI), and areaunder wash-out (AUWO). Selection of important features in predicting metastasishas been done by means of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis.Performance of linear discriminant analysis was analysed.Results: All morphological features but circularity showed a significantdifference between median values of metastatic lymph nodes group andnonmetastatic lymph nodes group. All dynamic parameters except for MSD and WOSshowed a statistically significant difference between median values of metastaticlymph nodes group and nonmetastatic lymph nodes group. Best results fordiscrimination of metastatic and nonmetastatic lymph nodes were obtained by AUGC (accuracy 75.8%), WIS (accuracy 71.0%), WOS (accuracy 71.0%), and AUCWO (accuracy72.6%) for dynamic features and by compactness (accuracy 82.3%), curvature(accuracy 71.0%), radial length (accuracy 71.0%), roughness (accuracy 74.2%),smoothness (accuracy 77.2%), and speculation (accuracy 72.6%) for morphologicalfeatures. Linear combination of all morphological and/or of all dynamic features did not increase accuracy in metastatic lymph nodes discrimination.Conclusions: Compactness as morphological feature and area under time-intensitycurve as dynamic feature were the best parameters in identifying metastatic lymphnodes on breast MRI.DOI: 10.1155/2018/2610801 PMCID: PMC5998166PMID: 30003092 