55. Breast. 2018 Jun 22;41:42-50. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.06.013. [Epub ahead ofprint]Link between estrogen deficiency osteoporosis and susceptibility to bonemetastases: A way towards precision medicine in cancer patients.Salamanna F(1), Borsari V(2), Contartese D(1), Nicoli Aldini N(1), Fini M(3).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Preclinical and Surgical Studies, Rizzoli RIT Department, IRCCS Rizzoli Orthopedic Institute, Via di Barbiano 1/10, Bologna, 40136, Italy.(2)Laboratory of Preclinical and Surgical Studies, Rizzoli RIT Department, IRCCS Rizzoli Orthopedic Institute, Via di Barbiano 1/10, Bologna, 40136, Italy.Electronic address: veronica.borsari@ior.it.(3)Laboratory of Biomechanics and Technology Innovation, Rizzoli RIT Department, IRCCS Rizzoli Orthopedic Institute, Via di Barbiano 1/10, Bologna, 40136, Italy.Different fields of cancer management consider bone health to be of increasingclinical importance for patients: 1) presence of bone metastases in many solidtumors, 2) use of bone-targeted treatments in the reduction of bone metastasis,3) effects of cancer treatment on reproductive hormones, critical for normal boneremodeling maintenance. Additionally, bone microenvironment is furthercomplicated by the decline of ovarian sex steroid production and by the relatedincrease in inflammatory factors linked to menopause, which result in acceleratedbone loss and increased risk of osteoporosis (OP). Similarly, cancers andmetastasis to bone showed a close relationship with sex hormones (particularlyestrogen). Thus, these findings raise a question: Could pre-existing estrogendeficiency OP promote and/or influence cancer cell homing and tumor growth inbone? Although some preclinical and clinical evidence exists, it is mandatory to understand this aspect that would be relevant in the clinical theatre, wherephysicians need to understand the treatments available to reduce the risk ofskeletal disease in cancer patients. This descriptive systematic reviewsummarizes preclinical and clinical studies dealing with bimodal interactionsbetween pre-existing estrogen deficiency OP and bone metastasis development andprovides evidence supporting differences in tumor growth and colonization betweenhealthy and OP status. Few studies evaluated the impact of estrogen deficiency OPon the susceptibility to bone metastases. Therefore, implementing biologicalknowledge, could help researchers and clinicians to have a better comprehensionof the importance of pre- and post-menopausal bone microenvironment and itsclinical implications for precision medicine in cancer patients.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.06.013 PMID: 30007267 