61. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2018 Jul 13. doi: 10.1007/s10549-018-4886-8. [Epub aheadof print]Cost-effectiveness of monitoring endoxifen levels in breast cancer patientsadjuvantly treated with tamoxifen.van Nuland M(1)(2)(3), Vreman RA(4), Ten Ham RMT(4), de Vries SchultinkAHM(5)(6), Rosing H(5), Schellens JHM(6)(4)(7), Beijnen JH(5)(6)(4), HövelsAM(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute and MC Slotervaart, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. m.v.nuland@nki.nl.(2)Division of Pharmacology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121,1066 CX, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. m.v.nuland@nki.nl.(3)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.m.v.nuland@nki.nl.(4)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.(5)Department of Pharmacy and Pharmacology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute and MC Slotervaart, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(6)Division of Pharmacology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121,1066 CX, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(7)Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Department of Medical Oncology, TheNetherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.PURPOSE: Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women worldwide.Recurrence rates in breast cancer are considered to be dependent on the serumconcentration of endoxifen, the active metabolite of tamoxifen. The goal of this study is to investigate the cost-effectiveness of periodically monitoring serumconcentrations of endoxifen in adjuvant estrogen receptor alfa (ERα) positivebreast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen in the Netherlands.METHODS: A Markov model with disease-free survival (DFS), recurrent disease (RD),and death states was constructed. The benefit of drug monitoring was modeled via a difference in the fraction of patients achieving adequate serum concentrations.Robustness of results to changes in model assumptions were tested throughdeterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.RESULTS: Monitoring of endoxifen added 0.0115 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)and saved € 1564 per patient in the base case scenario. Deterministic sensitivityanalysis demonstrated a large effect on the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the differences in costs and utilities between the DFS and RD states.Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the probability ofcost-effectiveness at a willingness to pay of € 0 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was 89.8%.CONCLUSIONS: Based on this model, monitoring of endoxifen in adjuvantERα + breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen is likely to add QALYs andsave costs from a healthcare payer perspective. We advise clinicians to consider integrating serum endoxifen concentration monitoring into standard adjuvanttamoxifen treatment of ERα + breast cancer patients.DOI: 10.1007/s10549-018-4886-8 PMID: 30006796 