78. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 3. pii: S0748-7983(18)31166-1. doi:10.1016/j.ejso.2018.06.022. [Epub ahead of print]Micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) for intraoperative surgical marginassessment of breast cancer: A feasibility study in breast conserving surgery.Qiu SQ(1), Dorrius MD(2), de Jongh SJ(3), Jansen L(3), de Vries J(3), SchröderCP(4), Zhang GJ(5), de Vries EGE(4), van der Vegt B(6), van Dam GM(7).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Groningen, University MedicalCenter Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands; Department of Surgical Oncology,University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, TheNetherlands; The Breast Center, Cancer Hospital of Shantou University MedicalCollege, Guangdong, China.(2)Department of Radiology, University of Groningen, University Medical CenterGroningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(3)Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Groningen, University MedicalCenter Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Groningen, University MedicalCenter Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(5)Changjiang Scholar's Laboratory of Shantou University Medical College,Guangdong, China; The Cancer Center, Xiang'an Hospital of Xiamen University,Fujian, China.(6)Department of Pathology, University of Groningen, University Medical CenterGroningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(7)Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Groningen, University MedicalCenter Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands; Department of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging and Intensive Care, University of Groningen, University MedicalCenter Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:g.m.van.dam@umcg.nl.PURPOSE: Around 15%-30% of patients receiving breast-conserving surgery (BCS) forinvasive breast carcinoma or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) need a reoperationdue to tumor-positive margins at final histopathology. Currently availableintraoperative surgical margin assessment modalities all have specificlimitations. Therefore, we aimed to assess the feasibility and accuracy ofmicro-computed tomography (micro-CT) as a novel method for intraoperative margin assessment in BCS.METHODS: Lumpectomy specimens from 30 consecutive patients diagnosed withinvasive breast cancer or DCIS were imaged using a micro-CT. Margin status wasassessed on micro-CT images by two investigators who were blinded to the finalhistopathological margin status. The micro-CT margin status was compared with thehistopathological margin status.RESULTS: The margin status could be assessed by micro-CT in 29 out of 30patients. Of these, nine patients had a positive tumor margin and 20 a negativetumor margin at final histopathology. Margin status evaluation by micro-CT tookalways less than 15 min. The margin status in 25 patients was correctly predictedby micro-CT. There were four false-negative predictions. The accuracy,sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive valueof micro-CT in margin status prediction were 86%, 56%, 100%, 100% and 83%,respectively. With micro-CT, the positive margin rate could potentially have beenreduced from 31% to 14%.CONCLUSIONS: Whole lumpectomy specimen micro-CT scanning is a promising techniquefor intraoperative margin assessment in BCS. Intraoperative quick feedback on themargin status could potentially lead to a reduction in the number ofreoperations.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd, BASO ~ The Association for Cancer Surgery, and theEuropean Society of Surgical Oncology. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.06.022 PMID: 30005963 