Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest117. Ann Ital Chir. 2018 Jul 12;7. pii: S2239253X18028098.Acellular dermal matrix for breast reconstruction after surgery for giantdermatofibrosarcoma protuberans.Zanghì A, Di Vita M, Cavallaro A, Majorana M, Bentivegna S, Cardì F, CappellaniA.INTRODUCTION: Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) is a rare neoplasm thatexceptionally can affect the breast, always originating from skin and dermis, so imposing large sacrifice of skin. Only few cases have been reported ofintraparenchymal DFS. We describe a unique case of giant intraparenchymal DFSthat required removal of all the gland and reconstructive surgery.CASE REPORT: A 34 years old woman presents with a quickly growing breast mass,about 12 cm, with radiological features suggestive for giant fibroadenoma ormesenchymal neoplasm. The histology showed a Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberansinfiltrating the surrounding parenchyma. The need for radicalization imposed, dueto the size of the tumour, a nipple sparing mastectomy. The reconstruction hasbeen performed using a new type of Acellular Dermal Matrix (ADM) mesh to wrap theprosthesis that has been placed and fixed over the great pectoral muscle.RESULTS: The final histologic report showed that the residual parenchyma and the skin removed were free from neoplastic infiltration. The patient is free fromrecurrence at 24 months from the surgery and the cosmetic result is excellent.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of DFSP should be aimed to preventlocal recurrence, that are usually located in the scar or very close to it. Largesize DFS can impose even mastectomy. If skin is not compromised like in thiscase, a nipple sparing mastectomy is suitable and the one time reconstructionwith ADM wrapping of the prosthesis and fixation over the muscle can help tospare time, avoid complications and pain medication and reach excellent cosmetic resu.KEY WORDS: Acellular Dermal Matrix (ADM) mesh, Protuberans, Breast neoplasms,Dermatofibrosarcoma, Mastectomy, Nipple sparing, reconstructive surgery.Publisher: Il dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) è una neoplasia rara cheinteressa solo eccezionalmente la mammella, originano sempre dalla cute e dalderma, imponendo quindi un ampio sacrificio del rivestimento cutaneo. Inletteratura sono stati descritti fino ad ora solo pochi casi di DFSPintraparenchimali. Il caso qui descritto è l’unico, a nostra conoscenza, di DFSP gigante intraparenchimale, tale da richiedere una mastectomia nipple sparing con ricostruzione immediata.Una donna di 34 anni si presenta all’osservazione con unaneoformazione della mammella destra accresciutasi rapidamente fino a raggiungere un diametro massimo di 12 cm. Il quadro radiologico era suggestivo per unfibroadenoma gigante o per una neoplasia mesenchimale. Il reperto istologico,dopo asportazione della massa con tessuto circostante dimostrò unDermatofibrosarcoma protuberans che infiltrava il parenchima circostante, per cuisi impose una radicalizzazione dell’intervento con esecuzione di una nipplesparing mastectomy. La ricostruzione è stata eseguita in un tempo utilizzando unaprotesi a doppia camera avvolta in una mesh in ADM di nuova concezione peravvolgere la protesi e fissarla in sede prepettorale.L’istologia ha mostrato che il parenchima residuo e la cute asportata erano indenni da infiltrazioneneoplastica. Il risultato cosmetico sia immediato che a distanza di 24 mesi èottimale e la paziente è esente da recidiva.Il Dermatofibroasrcoma protuberans,per quanto eccezionale nella mammmella, dovrebbe comunque essere tenuto inconsiderazione nella diagnosi differenziale delle masse mammarie, anche quando ilrapporto con la cute ed il derma non sia evidente. Il trattamento deve esseremirato a prevenire le recidive, che si presentano di solito a livello dellacicatrice o in sua prossimità. I DFSP di grandi dimensioni possono rchiederel’esecuzione di una mastectomia. Se la cute non è compromessa, come in questocaso, una nipple sparing mastectomy rappresenta l’intervento di scelta. Laricostruzione in un tempo con apposizione di protesi in sede prepettorale, grazieal rivestimento in ADM, permette di risparmiare tempo, sedute operatorie,complicanze, dolore post-operatorio, deficit funzionali, e raggiungere uneccellente risultato estetico e funzionale con soddisfazione della paziente.PMID: 30004034 