Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST No potential conflicts ofinterest were disclosed.152. J Cancer Prev. 2018 Jun;23(2):87-92. doi: 10.15430/JCP.2018.23.2.87. Epub 2018Jun 30.Mechanical Alteration Associated With Chemotherapeutic Resistance of BreastCancer Cells.Park S(1).Author information: (1)College of Pharmacy, Keimyung University, Daegu, Korea.Background: The mechanical deformability of cancer cells has attracted particularattention as an emerging biomarker for the prediction of anti-cancer drugsensitivity. Nevertheless, it has not been possible to establish a general rubricfor the identification of drug susceptibility in breast cancer cells from amechanical perspective. In the present study, we investigated the mechanicalalteration associated with resistance to adjuvant therapy in breast cancer cells.Methods: We performed an 'atomic force microscopy (AFM)-based nanomechanicalstudy' on 'drug-sensitive (MCF-7)' and 'drug-resistant (MCF-7/ADR)' breast cancercells. We also conducted cell viability tests to evaluate the difference indoxorubicin responsiveness between two breast cancer cell lines. We carried out awound closure experiment to investigate the motility changes associated withchemotherapeutic resistance. To elucidate the changes in molecular alterationthat accompany chemotherapeutic resistance, we investigated the expression ofvinculin and integrin-linked kinase-1-which are proteins involved in substrateadhesion and the actin cytoskeleton-using Western blotting analysis.Results: A MTT assay confirmed that the dose-dependent efficacy of doxorubicinwas reduced in MCF-7/ADR cells compared to that in MCF-7 cells. The wound assayrevealed enhanced two-dimensional motility in the MCF-7/ADR cells. The AFMmechanical assay showed evidence that the drug-resistant breast cancer cellsexhibited a significant decrease in mechanical deformability compared to theirdrug-sensitive counterparts. The mechanical alteration in the MCF-7/ADR cells wasaccompanied by upregulated vinculin expression.Conclusions: The obtained results manifestly showed that the altered mechanicalsignatures-including mechanical deformability and motility-were closely relatedwith drug resistance in the breast cancer cells. We believe that thisinvestigation has improved our understanding of the chemotherapeuticsusceptibility of breast cancer cells.DOI: 10.15430/JCP.2018.23.2.87 PMCID: PMC6037207PMID: 30003069 