75. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2018 Jul;16(7):829-837. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2018.7024.Geographic Variation in Postoperative Imaging for Low-Risk Breast Cancer.Franc BL(1), Copeland TP(1), Thombley R(1), Park M(1), Marafino B(1), Dean ML(1),Boscardin WJ(1), Rugo HS(1), Seidenwurm D(1), Sharma B(1), Johnston SR(1), DudleyRA(1).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, Philip R. Lee Institute forHealth Policy Studies, Center for Healthcare Value, Department of Medicine,Epidemiology & Biostatistics, and Department of Medicine, University ofCalifornia, San Francisco, California; Diagnostic Imaging, Sutter Medical Group, Sacramento, California; and The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Chelsea,London, United Kingdom.Background: The objective of this study was to examine the presence and magnitudeof US geographic variation in use rates of both recommended and high-cost imagingin young patients with early-stage breast cancer during the 18 month period aftersurgical treatment of their primary tumor. Methods: Using the Truven HealthMarketScan Commercial Database, a descriptive analysis was conducted ofgeographic variation in annual rates of dedicated breast imaging and high-costbody imaging of 36,045 women aged 18 to 64 years treated with surgery forinvasive unilateral breast cancer between 2010 and 2012. Multivariatehierarchical analysis examined the relationship between likelihood of imaging andpatient characteristics, with metropolitan statistical area (MSA) serving as arandom effect. Patient characteristics included age group, BRCA1/2 carrierstatus, family history of breast cancer, combination of breast surgery type andradiation therapy, drug therapy, and payer type. All MSAs in the United Stateswere included, with areas outside MSAs within a given state aggregated into asingle area for analytic purposes. Results: Descriptive analysis of rates ofimaging use and intensity within MSA regions revealed wide geographic variation, irrespective of treatment cohort or age group. Increased probability ofrecommended postoperative dedicated breast imaging was primarily associated with age and treatment including both surgery and radiation therapy, followed by MSAregion (odds ratio, 1.42). Increased probability of PET use-a high-cost imagingmodality for which postoperative routine use is not recommended in the absence ofspecific clinical findings-was primarily associated with surgery type followed byMSA region (odds ratio, 1.82). Conclusions: In patients with breast cancertreated for low-risk disease, geography has effects on the rates of posttreatmentimaging, suggesting that some patients are not receiving beneficial dedicatedbreast imaging, and high-cost nonbreast imaging may not be targeted to thosegroups most likely to benefit.Copyright © 2018 by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network.DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2018.7024 PMID: 30006425 