76. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jul 10. pii: S1742-7061(18)30412-4. doi:10.1016/j.actbio.2018.07.018. [Epub ahead of print]Hypericin-functionalized graphene oxide for enhanced mitochondria-targeting andsynergistic anticancer effect.Han C(1), Zhang C(2), Ma T(1), Zhang C(1), Luo J(1), Xu X(1), Zhao H(1), ChenY(1), Kong L(3).Author information: (1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Bioactive Natural Product Research and State KeyLaboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, ChinaPharmaceutical University, 24 Tong Jia Xiang, Nanjing 210009, PR China.(2)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Center of Drug Discovery andDepartment of Pharmaceutics, China Pharmaceutical University, 24 Tong Jia Xiang, Nanjing 210009, PR China.(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Bioactive Natural Product Research and State KeyLaboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Traditional Chinese Pharmacy, ChinaPharmaceutical University, 24 Tong Jia Xiang, Nanjing 210009, PR China.Electronic address: cpu_lykong@126.com.Effective targeting of mitochondria has emerged as a beneficial strategy incancer therapy. However, the development of mitochondria-targeting ligands isdifficult because of the low permeability of the mitochondrial double membrane.We found that hypericin (HY), a natural product isolated from Hypericumperforatum L., is an effective mitochondria-targeting ligand. HY-functionalizedgraphene oxide (GO) loaded with doxorubicin (GO-PEG-SS-HY/DOX) increased thesynergistic anticancer efficacy of phototherapy and chemotherapy in the absenceof apparent adverse side effects. In vitro and in vivo assays suggestedGO-PEG-SS-HY/DOX induced the expression of the key proteins of themitochondria-mediated apoptosis pathway and caused apoptosis of breast carcinoma cells. In addition, GO vehicle exhibited low toxicity toward normal cells,indicating high safety of functionalized GO preparations in antitumor therapy.Therefore, HY-functionalized GO can be successfully used as a platform technologyto target mitochondria in cancer cells and improve the therapeutic efficacy ofchemotherapeutic drugs.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Induction ofmitochondria-mediated apoptosis is a promising approach in cancer therapy.However, mitochondria are difficult to access and permeate because of theirnegative membrane potential and highly dense double membrane.Mitochondria-targeting ligands can be conjugated to nanoparticles orsmall-molecule drugs to enhance their antitumor effect. Here, we showed that the natural photosensitizer hypericin is a novel mitochondria-targeting ligand andthat graphene oxide particles co-loaded with hypericin and the chemotherapeuticagent doxorubicin exhibited a synergistic antitumor effect mediated by themitochondrial-mediated apoptosis. Treatment with such particles in combinationwith laser irradiation led to apoptosis of the tumor MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cellsin vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, treatment withhypericin/doxorubicin-functionalized graphene oxide had low cellular toxicity.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.07.018 PMID: 30006311 