11. Curr Drug Deliv. 2018 Jul 15. doi: 10.2174/1567201815666180716112457. [Epub aheadof print]Lipid based aqueous core nanocapsules (ACNs) for encapsulating hydrophillicVinorelbine bitartrate: Preparation, optimization, characterization and in vitro safety assessment for intravenous administration.Maurya L(1), Singh S(1), Vijayakumar MR(1), Dewangan HK(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutical Enginnering & Technology, Indian Institute ofTechnology (BHU), Varanasi. India.BACKGROUND: Vinorelbine bitartrate (VRL) is an antimitotic agent approved by FDA for breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in many countries.However, high aqueous solubility and thermo degradable nature of VRL limited the availability of marketed dosage forms.OBJECTIVES: The current work is focused on the development of lipid based aqueouscore nanocapsules which can encapsulate the hydrophilic VRL in the aqueous coreof nanocapsules protected with a lipidic shell which will further provide asustained release.METHODS: The ACNs were prepared by double emulsification technique followed bysolvent evaporation. Box Behnken Design was utilized to optimize the formulation and process variables. Thirteen batches were generated utilizing lipidconcentration, surfactant concentration and homogenizer speed as dependentvariables (at three levels) and particle size and encapsulation efficiency ascritical quality attributes. The ACNs were characterized for particle size, zeta potential, polydispersity index (PDI), entrapment efficiency, morphology byTransmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) and in vitro release. The ACNs werefurther evaluated for safety against intravenous administration byhaemocompatibility studies.RESULTS: Results demonstrated that lipidic nanocapsules enhanced the entrapmentefficiency of VRL up to 78%. Transmission Electron Microscopy revealed spherical shape of ACNs with core-shell structure. The GMS-VRL-ACNs showed that releasefollowed Korsemeyer peppas kinetics suggesting Fickian diffusion. Moreover, thecompliance towards haemocompatibility studies depicted the safety of preparednanocapsules against intravenous administration.CONCLUSION: ACNs were found to be promising in encapsulating high aqueous solubleanticancer drugs with enhanced entrapment and safety towards intravenousadministration.Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email atepub@benthamscience.org.DOI: 10.2174/1567201815666180716112457 PMID: 30009708 