39. J Control Release. 2018 Jul 3;285:23-34. doi: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.06.035.[Epub ahead of print]Nanofluidic drug-eluting seed for sustained intratumoral immunotherapy in triple negative breast cancer.Chua CYX(1), Jain P(1), Susnjar A(1), Rhudy J(1), Folci M(2), Ballerini A(3),Gilbert A(1), Singh S(4), Bruno G(5), Filgueira CS(1), Yee C(4), Butler EB(6),Grattoni A(7).Author information: (1)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute (HMRI),Houston, TX, USA.(2)Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Istituto Auxologico Italiano,University of Milan, Milan, Italy.(3)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute (HMRI),Houston, TX, USA; Department of Medical Biotechnology and Translational Medicine,University of Milan, Milan, Italy.(4)Department of Melanoma Medical Oncology, University of MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX, USA.(5)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute (HMRI),Houston, TX, USA; Politecnico di Torino, Turin, Italy.(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX,USA.(7)Department of Nanomedicine, Houston Methodist Research Institute (HMRI),Houston, TX, USA; Department of Radiation Oncology, Houston Methodist Hospital,Houston, TX, USA; Department of Surgery, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX,USA. Electronic address: agrattoni@houstonmethodist.org.Conventional systemic immunotherapy administration often results in insufficient anti-tumor immune response and adverse side effects. Deliveringimmunotherapeutics intratumorally could maximize tumor exposure, elicit efficientanti-tumor immune response, and minimize toxicity. To fulfill the unmet clinical need for sustained local drug delivery and to avoid repeated intratumoralinjections, we developed a nanofluidic-based device for intratumoral drugdelivery called the nanofluidic drug-eluting seed (NDES). The NDES is insertedintratumorally using a minimally invasive trocar method similar to brachytherapy seed insertion and offers a clinical advantage of drug elution. Drug diffusionfrom the NDES is regulated by physical and electrostatic nanoconfinement, therebyresulting in constant and sustained immunotherapeutic delivery without the needfor injections or clinician intervention. In this study, the NDES was used todeliver immunotherapeutics intratumorally in the 4 T1 orthotopic murine mammarycarcinoma model, which recapitulates triple negative breast cancer. Wedemonstrated that NDES-mediated intratumoral release of agonist monoclonalantibodies, OX40 and CD40, resulted in potentiation of local and systemicanti-tumor immune response and inhibition of tumor growth compared to controlmice. Further, mice treated with NDES-CD40 demonstrated minimal liver damagecompared to systemically treated mice. Collectively, our study highlights theNDES as an effective platform for sustained intratumoral immunotherapeuticdelivery. The potential clinical impact is tremendous given that the NDES isapplicable to a broad spectrum of drugs and solid tumors.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2018.06.035 PMID: 30008369 