53. Breast. 2018 Jun 28;41:57-66. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.06.011. [Epub ahead ofprint]Stereotactic radiotherapy in metastatic breast cancer.Possanzini M(1), Greco C(2).Author information: (1)Radiotherapy Department, Fundação Champalimaud, Lisbon, Portugal; Breast Unit Fundação Champalimaud, Lisbon, Portugal; Radiotherapy Department, BusincoOncological Hospital, Cagliari, Italy. Electronic address:marco.possanzini@gmail.com.(2)Radiotherapy Department, Fundação Champalimaud, Lisbon, Portugal.The treatment of metastatic breast cancer is largely focused on systemic therapy.However, over the past decades, there has been growing interest in the use ofmetastasis-directed therapy in selected cases presenting with an oligometastatic phenotype, i.e. low disease burden with a more indolent biology. Identificationof the oligometastatic breast cancer population has, so far, proven elusive.Stereotactic radiotherapy offers an effective, non-invasive approach to ablatemetastatic disease both in the brain and in extra-cranial settings. The advent ofadvanced imaging techniques for target definition, along with the ability toachieve highly conformal dose deposition with steep dose fall-off, enable safeimplementation of extreme hypofractionated and single fraction regimens withablative intent. There is growing evidence that radiation-based treatments aremore cost-effective when compared to other ablative modalities. This articleprovides preliminary evidence that metastasis-direct ablation, with advancedradiotherapy techniques, may play an important role in the management ofmetastatic breast cancer patients, potentially improving clinical outcomes withminimal toxicity. However, prospective randomized controlled trials are needed tofurther the understanding of the interaction between systemic therapy andablative irradiation. Additionally, research in genomic and molecular profilingis needed to characterize metastatic breast cancer patients who will most likely benefit from such combined treatment approaches.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.06.011 PMID: 30007269 