129. J BUON. 2018 May-Jun;23(3):713-719.The expression of ANXA3 and its relationship with the occurrence and development of breast cancer.Zhou T(1), Liu S, Yang L, Ju Y, Li C.Author information: (1)Breast Disease Center, the Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University,Shijiazhuang, Hebei, 050011, P.R. China.PURPOSE: To investigate the expression of ANXA3 in breast cancer tissues andnormal breast tissues and its relationship with the clinicopathological features.METHODS: The expression levels of ANXA3 mRNA and protein were determined byfluorescent quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively, in 81 samplesfrom breast cancer tissues and normal breast tissues. Flow cytometry, used todetect the cell cycle, further analyzed the differences in the cell proliferationindexes between cancer and the normal tissues. In addition, the correlationbetween the gene and protein expression levels of ANXA3 and the cellproliferation indexes in breast cancer tissues was calculated.RESULTS: The expression levels of ANXA3 mRNA and protein were significantlyhigher in breast cancer tissues than in control samples. Furthermore, theirexpression patterns were significantly different in patients with differentaxillary lymph node metastasis states, with or without vascular tumor thrombus,and with different molecular classifications. The expression of ANXA3 mRNA andprotein in patients with triple-negative breast cancer was significantly higherthan in Luminal A and B types. However, no significant differences were detected in the expression levels in other subtypes. Compared to normal tissues, the cell proliferation indexes of breast cancer tissues were significantly higher, andpresented significant positive correlations with the ANXA3 gene and proteinexpression levels.CONCLUSION: The expression of ANXA3 might play a crucial role in promoting theoccurrence, development, and metastasis of breast cancer. It could serve as animportant marker involved in the invasion and metastasis states, and theprognosis of breast cancer.PMID: 30003741 