108. J Adolesc Young Adult Oncol. 2018 Jul 13. doi: 10.1089/jayao.2018.0028. [Epubahead of print]A Systematic Review of How Young People Live with Inherited Disease: What Can We Learn for Li-Fraumeni Syndrome?Forbes Shepherd R(1)(2)(3), Lewis A(1), Keogh LA(4), Werner-Lin A(5), DelatyckiMB(3)(6)(7), Forrest LE(1)(2).Author information: (1)1 Familial Cancer Centre, Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre , Melbourne, Australia.(2)2 Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, The University of Melbourne ,Melbourne, Australia .(3)3 Bruce Lefroy Centre for Genetic Health Research, Murdoch Children's ResearchInstitute , Parkville, Australia .(4)4 Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, The University ofMelbourne , Melbourne, Australia .(5)5 School of Social Policy and Practice, The University of Pennsylvania ,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.(6)6 Department of Paediatrics, The University of Melbourne , Melbourne,Australia .(7)7 Victorian Clinical Genetics Service , Parkville, Australia .PURPOSE: Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS), a multiorgan cancer predisposition caused bygermline TP53 mutations, confers significant cancer risks for young people (15-39years). Yet evidence of how individuals experience this condition and thepsychosocial implications are lacking. Therefore, this systematic review assessedthe psychosocial implications of living with, or at risk of, an autosomaldominant condition as a young person, to draw evidence that may be analogous for young people with LFS.METHODS: We conducted a systematic search for studies published in peer-reviewed journals using Medline, CINAHL, PsycINFO, and Embase databases. Findings weresynthesized and are reported thematically.RESULTS: We screened 352 articles and identified 39 studies, representing theperspectives of 765 young people. Most studies addressed hereditary breast andovarian cancer (n = 22) and used qualitative methodologies (n = 35). Only one LFSstudy was identified, highlighting the distinct lack of psychosocial researchdescribing experiences of young people with LFS. Translatable evidence showedthat familial factors strongly influenced young people's experiences of genetictesting and their mutation status. Major adverse reactions to genetic testresults were rare, although young people with a gene mutation experienced variouspsychosocial concerns at key developmental milestones, including family planning,developing romantic relationships, and making risk management decisions.CONCLUSION: Young people undergoing genetic testing for inherited disease requireindividualized support and recognition of previous lived experiences. Werecommend that longitudinal care be made available to young people with inheriteddisease as they reach developmental milestones that intersect with riskmanagement, risk perception, and family formation.DOI: 10.1089/jayao.2018.0028 PMID: 30004834 