71. Genet Med. 2018 Jul;20(7):671-682. doi: 10.1038/gim.2018.28. Epub 2018 Apr 26.Care of adults with neurofibromatosis type 1: a clinical practice resource of theAmerican College of Medical Genetics and Genomics (ACMG).Stewart DR(1), Korf BR(2), Nathanson KL(3)(4), Stevenson DA(5), Yohay K(6).Author information: (1)Clinical Genetics Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics,National Cancer Institute, NIH, Rockville, Maryland, USA. drstewart@mail.nih.gov.(2)Department of Genetics, University of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.(3)Division of Translational Medicine and Human Genetics, Department of Medicine,Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,Pennsylvania, USA.(4)Abramson Cancer Center, Perelman School of Medicine at the University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.(5)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Medical Genetics, Stanford UniversitySchool of Medicine, Palo Alto, California, USA.(6)Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine, New York, NewYork, USA.DISCLAIMER: This practice resource is designed primarily as an educationalresource for medical geneticists and other clinicians to help them providequality medical services. Adherence to this practice resource is completelyvoluntary and does not necessarily assure a successful medical outcome. Thispractice resource should not be considered inclusive of all proper procedures andtests or exclusive of other procedures and tests that are reasonably directed to obtaining the same results. In determining the propriety of any specificprocedure or test, the clinician should apply his or her own professionaljudgment to the specific clinical circumstances presented by the individualpatient or specimen. Clinicians are encouraged to document the reasons for theuse of a particular procedure or test, whether or not it is in conformance withthis practice resource. Clinicians also are advised to take notice of the datethis practice resource was adopted, and to consider other medical and scientific information that becomes available after that date. It also would be prudent toconsider whether intellectual property interests may restrict the performance of certain tests and other procedures.PURPOSE: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant disorder that iscaused by a heterozygous loss-of-function variant in the tumor suppressor geneNF1; it affects ~1/1,900-1/3,500 people worldwide. The disorder is associatedwith an 8-15-year reduction in average life expectancy in both men and women,primarily due to malignant neoplasms and cardiovascular causes.METHODS: A work group of experts sought to determine the prevalence, morbidityand mortality, and available treatments of common and emerging NF1-relatedclinical problems in adults. Work-group members identified peer-reviewedpublications from PubMed. Publications derived from populations andmulti-institution cohorts were prioritized. Recommendations for management arose by consensus from this literature and the collective expertise of the authors.RESULTS: Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST), breast cancer,cutaneous neurofibromas, and significant psychiatric and neurologic diagnoses arecommon problems in patients with NF1.CONCLUSION: Patient education and sensitization to worrisome signs and symptomssuch as progressive severe pain (MPNST), changes in tumor volume (MPNST), new,unexplained neurologic symptoms (MPNST, brain tumors), anddiaphoresis/palpitations (pheochromocytoma) are important. Although many issuesin adults with NF1 can be managed by an internist or family physician, westrongly encourage evaluation by, and care coordination with, a specialized NF1clinic.DOI: 10.1038/gim.2018.28 PMID: 30006586 