100. Value Health. 2018 Jul;21(7):799-808. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2017.12.022. Epub 2018 Feb 21.Personalized Mammography Screening and Screening Adherence-A Simulation andEconomic Evaluation.Arnold M(1), Quante AS(2).Author information: (1)Munich Center of Health Sciences, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Munich,Germany; Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, HelmholtzZentrum München - German Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg,Germany. Electronic address: arnold@bwl.lmu.de.(2)Chair of Genetic Epidemiology, IBE, Faculty of Medicine, LMU Munich, Germany; Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Helmholtz Zentrum München - German ResearchCenter for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany; Department of Gynecologyand Obstetrics, University Hospital rechts der Isar, Technical University Munich,Munich, Germany.OBJECTIVE: Personalized breast cancer screening has so far been economicallyevaluated under the assumption of full screening adherence. This is the firststudy to evaluate the effects of nonadherence on the evaluation and selection of personalized screening strategies.METHODS: Different adherence scenarios were established on the basis of findings from the literature. A Markov microsimulation model was adapted to evaluate theeffects of these adherence scenarios on three different personalized strategies.RESULTS: First, three adherence scenarios describing the relationship betweenrisk and adherence were identified: 1) a positive association between risk andscreening adherence, 2) a negative association, or 3) a curvilinear relationship.Second, these three adherence scenarios were evaluated in three personalizedstrategies. Our results show that it is more the absolute adherence rate than thenature of the risk-adherence relationship that is important to determine whichstrategy is the most cost-effective. Furthermore, probabilistic sensitivityanalyses showed that there are risk-stratified screening strategies that are morecost-effective than routine screening if the willingness-to-pay threshold forscreening is below US $60,000.CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that "nonadherence" affects the relativeperformance of screening strategies. Thus, it is necessary to include the trueadherence level to evaluate personalized screening strategies and to select thebest strategy.Copyright © 2018 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and OutcomesResearch (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2017.12.022 PMID: 30005752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]