54. Breast. 2018 Jun 22;41:51-56. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.06.012. [Epub ahead ofprint]Prospective study to optimize care and improve knowledge on ovarian functionand/or fertility preservation in young breast cancer patients: Results of thepilot phase of the PREgnancy and FERtility (PREFER) study.Lambertini M(1), Fontana V(2), Massarotti C(3), Poggio F(4), Dellepiane C(5),Iacono G(6), Abate A(7), Miglietta L(8), Ferreccio C(9), Pescio MC(10), ConteB(11), Blondeaux E(12), Bighin C(13), D'Alonzo A(14), Vaglica M(15), ZanardiE(16), Boccardo F(17), Ballestrero A(18), Anserini P(19), Del Mastro L(20).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology and Breast Cancer Translational ResearchLaboratory, Institut Jules Bordet, Université Libre de Bruxelles (U.L.B.),Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: matteo.lambertini85@gmail.com.(2)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, Policlinico SanMartino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: valeria.fontana@hsanmartino.it.(3)Physiopathology of Human Reproduction Unit, Policlinico San Martino-IST,Genova, Italy. Electronic address: claudia.massarotti@gmail.com.(4)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Oncologia Medica 2, Policlinico SanMartino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: francesca.poggio.1987@gmail.com.(5)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Sviluppo Terapie Innovative, Policlinico San Martino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: chiara.delle@hotmail.it.(6)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Sviluppo Terapie Innovative, Policlinico San Martino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address:giuseppina.iacono@hsanmartino.it.(7)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Oncologia Medica 2, Policlinico SanMartino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: annalisa.abate@hsanmartino.it.(8)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Oncologia Medica 2, Policlinico SanMartino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address:loredana.miglietta@hsanmartino.it.(9)Physiopathology of Human Reproduction Unit, Policlinico San Martino-IST,Genova, Italy. Electronic address: chiaraferreccio@gmail.com.(10)Physiopathology of Human Reproduction Unit, Policlinico San Martino-IST,Genova, Italy. Electronic address: mcpescio@gmail.com.(11)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Oncologia Medica 2, Policlinico SanMartino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: bntconte@gmail.com.(12)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Oncologia Medica 2, Policlinico SanMartino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: evablx@libero.it.(13)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Oncologia Medica 2, Policlinico SanMartino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: claudia.bighin@hsanmartino.it.(14)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Sviluppo Terapie Innovative, PoliclinicoSan Martino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address:alessia.dalonzo@hsanmartino.it.(15)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Sviluppo Terapie Innovative, PoliclinicoSan Martino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address:marina.vaglica@hsanmartino.it.(16)Department of Medical Oncology, Clinica di Oncologia Medica, Policlinico San Martino-IST, Genova, Italy; Department of Internal Medicine and MedicalSpecialties (DIMI), School of Medicine, University of Genova, Genova, Italy.Electronic address: zanardielisa@yahoo.it.(17)Department of Medical Oncology, Clinica di Oncologia Medica, Policlinico San Martino-IST, Genova, Italy; Department of Internal Medicine and MedicalSpecialties (DIMI), School of Medicine, University of Genova, Genova, Italy.Electronic address: fboccardo@unige.it.(18)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties (DIMI), School ofMedicine, University of Genova, Genova, Italy; Department of Internal Medicine,Clinica di Medicina Interna a Indirizzo Oncologico, Policlinico San Martino-IST, Genova, Italy. Electronic address: aballestrero@unige.it.(19)Physiopathology of Human Reproduction Unit, Policlinico San Martino-IST,Genova, Italy. Electronic address: paola.anserini@fastwebnet.it.(20)Department of Medical Oncology, U.O. Sviluppo Terapie Innovative, PoliclinicoSan Martino-IST, Genova, Italy; Department of Internal Medicine and MedicalSpecialties (DIMI), School of Medicine, University of Genova, Genova, Italy.Electronic address: lucia.delmastro@hsanmartino.it.BACKGROUND: Despite the availability of different strategies for ovarian functionand/or fertility preservation in young breast cancer patients candidates forchemotherapy, limited data are available on patients' actual need of theseoptions.PATIENTS AND METHODS: The PREFER study is a prospective cohort study includingpremenopausal women with newly diagnosed early stage breast cancer between theage of 18 and 45 years and candidates for chemotherapy. The study aimed toinvestigate patients' preferences and their choices of the different availablestrategies for ovarian function and/or fertility preservation (i.e. acceptancerate) and reasons for refusal.RESULTS: A total of 131 consecutive patients referred from a single breast unitwere included. Median age was 38.9 years with 92 patients (70.3%) diagnosedat ≤ 40 years. The majority of patients (122, 93.1%) were concerned about therisk of treatment-induced premature ovarian insufficiency (POI) and/orinfertility. A total of 120 (91.6%) patients underwent temporary ovariansuppression with gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonists during chemotherapy for ovarian function preservation. Among patients with ≤40 years, only 11 (12.0%)decided to access cryopreservation strategies for fertility preservation. Themain reason for not accessing the fertility unit was completion of familyplanning before breast cancer diagnosis; for patients who accessed the fertility unit, fear of the procedure was the main reason to refuse the proposedcryopreservation strategies.CONCLUSION: Despite the majority of young breast cancer patients are concernedabout the risk of treatment-induced POI and/or infertility, only a limited numberof them required to access the fertility unit to undergo cryopreservationstrategies.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.06.012 PMID: 30007268 