40. Mol Cancer. 2018 Jul 16;17(1):97. doi: 10.1186/s12943-018-0846-5.Transcriptome reprogramming by cancer exosomes: identification of novel moleculartargets in matrix and immune modulation.Qadir F(1), Aziz MA(1), Sari CP(1), Ma H(2), Dai H(2), Wang X(2), Raithatha D(1),Da Silva LGL(1), Hussain M(1), Poorkasreiy SP(1), Hutchison IL(3), Waseem A(1),Teh MT(4)(5)(6).Author information: (1)Centre for Oral Immunobiology & Regenerative Medicine, Institute of Dentistry,Barts & The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University ofLondon, The Blizard Building, 4, Newark Street, E1 2AT, London, England, UK.(2)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, China-British Joint Molecular Headand Neck Cancer Research Laboratory, Affiliated Hospital & School of Stomatology,Guizhou Medical University, Guizhou, China.(3)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, Barts & The London NHS Trust,London, England, UK.(4)Centre for Oral Immunobiology & Regenerative Medicine, Institute of Dentistry,Barts & The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University ofLondon, The Blizard Building, 4, Newark Street, E1 2AT, London, England, UK.m.t.teh@qmul.ac.uk.(5)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, China-British Joint Molecular Headand Neck Cancer Research Laboratory, Affiliated Hospital & School of Stomatology,Guizhou Medical University, Guizhou, China. m.t.teh@qmul.ac.uk.(6)Cancer Research Institute, Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of GuangzhouMedical University, Guangzhou, China. m.t.teh@qmul.ac.uk.BACKGROUND: Exosomes are extracellular vesicles released by almost all celltypes, including cancer cells, into bodily fluids such as saliva, plasma, breast milk, semen, urine, cerebrospinal fluid, amniotic fluid, synovial fluid andsputum. Their key function being intercellular communication with bothneighbouring as well as distant cells. Cancer exosomes have been shown toregulate organ-specific metastasis. However, little is known about the functionaldifferences and molecular consequences of normal cells responding to exosomesderived from normal cells compared to those derived from cancer cells.METHODS: Here, we characterised and compared the transcriptome profiles ofprimary human normal oral keratinocytes (HNOK) in response to exosomes isolatedfrom either primary HNOK or head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) celllines.RESULTS: In recipient HNOK cells, we found that regardless of normal or cancerderived, exosomes altered molecular programmes involved in matrix modulation(MMP9), cytoskeletal remodelling (TUBB6, FEZ1, CCT6A), viral/dsRNA-inducedinterferon (OAS1, IFI6), anti-inflammatory (TSC22D3), deubiquitin (OTUD1), lipid metabolism and membrane trafficking (BBOX1, LRP11, RAB6A). Interestingly, cancer exosomes, but not normal exosomes, modulated expression of matrix remodelling(EFEMP1, DDK3, SPARC), cell cycle (EEF2K), membrane remodelling (LAMP2, SRPX),differentiation (SPRR2E), apoptosis (CTSC), transcription/translation (KLF6,PUS7). We have also identified CEP55 as a potential cancer exosomal marker.CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, both normal and cancer exosomes modulated unique geneexpression pathways in normal recipient cells. Cancer cells may exploit exosomes to confer transcriptome reprogramming that leads to cancer-associated pathologiessuch as angiogenesis, immune evasion/modulation, cell fate alteration andmetastasis. Molecular pathways and biomarkers identified in this study may beclinically exploitable for developing novel liquid-biopsy based diagnostics andimmunotherapies.DOI: 10.1186/s12943-018-0846-5 PMCID: PMC6047127PMID: 30008265 