200. J Vis Exp. 2018 Jul 2;(137). doi: 10.3791/57826.Bioprintable Alginate/Gelatin Hydrogel 3D In Vitro Model Systems Induce CellSpheroid Formation.Jiang T(1), Munguia-Lopez J(2), Flores-Torres S(3), Grant J(4), Vijayakumar S(4),De Leon-Rodriguez A(5), Kinsella JM(6).Author information: (1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, McGill University Montreal.(2)Department of Bioengineering, McGill University Montreal; Department ofMolecular Biology, Instituto Potosino de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica, A.C. (IPICyT).(3)Department of Bioengineering, McGill University Montreal.(4)Department of Mining and Materials Engineering, McGill University Montreal.(5)Department of Molecular Biology, Instituto Potosino de InvestigaciónCientífica y Tecnológica, A.C. (IPICyT).(6)Department of Bioengineering, McGill University Montreal; Department ofBiomedical Engineering, McGill University Montreal; joseph.kinsella@mcgill.ca.The cellular, biochemical, and biophysical heterogeneity of the native tumormicroenvironment is not recapitulated by growing immortalized cancer cell linesusing conventional two-dimensional (2D) cell culture. These challenges can beovercome by using bioprinting techniques to build heterogeneous three-dimensional(3D) tumor models whereby different types of cells are embedded. Alginate andgelatin are two of the most common biomaterials employed in bioprinting due totheir biocompatibility, biomimicry, and mechanical properties. By combining thetwo polymers, we achieved a bioprintable composite hydrogel with similarities to the microscopic architecture of a native tumor stroma. We studied theprintability of the composite hydrogel via rheology and obtained the optimalprinting window. Breast cancer cells and fibroblasts were embedded in thehydrogels and printed to form a 3D model mimicking the in vivo microenvironment. The bioprinted heterogeneous model achieves a high viability for long-term cellculture (> 30 days) and promotes the self-assembly of breast cancer cells intomulticellular tumor spheroids (MCTS). We observed the migration and interactionof the cancer-associated fibroblast cells (CAFs) with the MCTS in this model. By using bioprinted cell culture platforms as co-culture systems, it offers a uniquetool to study the dependence of tumorigenesis on the stroma composition. Thistechnique features a high-throughput, low cost, and high reproducibility, and it can also provide an alternative model to conventional cell monolayer cultures andanimal tumor models to study cancer biology.DOI: 10.3791/57826 PMID: 30010644 