83. Transl Behav Med. 2018 Jul 17;8(4):629-642. doi: 10.1093/tbm/ibx061.A conceptual model of social networks and mechanisms of cancer mortality, andpotential strategies to improve survival.Kroenke CH(1).Author information: (1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Northern California, Oakland, CA, USA.Women with larger personal social networks have better breast cancer survival anda lower risk of mortality. However, little work has examined the mechanismsthrough which social networks influence breast cancer outcomes and canceroutcomes more generally, potentially limiting the development of feasible,clinically effective interventions. In fact, much of the emphasis in cancerresearch regarding the influence of social relationships on cancer outcomes hasfocused on the benefits of the provision of social support to patients,especially through peer support groups, and only more recently through patientnavigation. Though critically important, there are other ways through whichsocial relationships might influence outcomes, around which interventions mightbe developed. In addition to social support, these include social resources,social norms, social contagion, social roles, and social burdens and obligations.This narrative review addresses how social networks may influence cancer outcomesand discusses potential strategies for improving outcomes given theserelationships. The paper (a) describes background and limitations of previousresearch, (b) outlines terms and provides a conceptual model that describesinterrelationships between social networks and relevant variables and theirhypothesized influence on cancer outcomes, (c) clarifies social and psychosocial mechanisms through which social networks affect downstream factors, (d) describesdownstream behavioral, treatment, and physiological factors through which thesesubsequently influence recurrence and mortality, and (e) describes neededresearch and potential opportunities to enhance translation. Though mostliterature in this area pertains to breast cancer, this review has substantialrelevance for cancer outcomes generally. Further clarification and researchregarding potential mechanisms are needed to translate epidemiological findingson social networks into clinical and community strategies to improve canceroutcomes.DOI: 10.1093/tbm/ibx061 PMCID: PMC6065533 [Available on 2019-07-17]PMID: 30016520 