36. J Endocr Soc. 2018 Jun 21;2(8):855-859. doi: 10.1210/js.2018-00124. eCollection2018 Aug 1.Sonographic Presentation of Metastases to the Thyroid Gland: A Case Series.Falcone R(1), Ramundo V(1), Lamartina L(1), Ascoli V(2), Bosco D(2), Di GioiaC(2), Montesano T(1), Biffoni M(3), Bononi M(4), Giacomelli L(3), Minni A(5),Segni M(6), Maranghi M(1), Cantisani V(2), Durante C(1), Grani G(1).Author information: (1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e Specialità Mediche, Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy.(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Radiologiche, Oncologiche ed Anatomo Patologiche,Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy.(3)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche, Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy.(4)Dipartimento di Chirurgia "P. Valdoni," Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome,Italy.(5)Dipartimento Organi di Senso, Sapienza Università di Roma, Rome, Italy.(6)Dipartimento di Pediatria e Neuropsichiatria infantile, Sapienza Università diRoma, Rome, Italy.Incidental sonographic discovery of thyroid nodules is an increasingly commonevent. The vast majority is benign, and those that are malignant, are generallyassociated with an indolent course and low mortality. Sonographic scoring systemshave been developed to help clinicians identify nodules that warrant promptfine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC), but they are based largely on experience with papillary thyroid cancers. We analyzed the performance of four scoringsystems widely used for this purpose (American Thyroid Association Guidelines,American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists/American College ofEndocrinology/Associazione Medici Endocrinologi Guidelines, European ThyroidImaging Reporting and Data System, and Korean Thyroid Imaging Reporting and Data System) in patients whose nodules proved to be metastases from other solidcancers. Such nodules reportedly account for 0.2% to 3% of all thyroidmalignancies. Each scoring system was used to assess retrospectively themalignancy risk and indications for FNAC of five patients' thyroid nodules thatwere ultimately diagnosed as metastases (from renal cell carcinoma, breastcancer, and lung cancer in two cases and esophageal cancer). The primariesidentified in these cases are those most commonly reported to metastasize to the thyroid. In two cases, the thyroid metastases were the first sign of undetectedneoplastic disease. Although sonography alone cannot distinguish thyroidmetastases from primary thyroid malignancies, all four scoring systems classifiedthe metastatic nodules as suspicious enough to require FNAC. The five casesaccounted for 0.2% of those cytologically examined in our center. In most cases, cytology provided useful guidance for the subsequent management of these lesions,which differs from that of primary thyroid cancers and requires multidisciplinaryinput.DOI: 10.1210/js.2018-00124 PMCID: PMC6041777PMID: 30019024 