70. Comp Med. 2018 Jul 17. doi: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000005. [Epub ahead of print]Staphylococcus xylosus Cystitis and Struvite Urolithiasis in Nude Mice Implanted with Sustained-release Estrogen Pellets.Salleng KJ, Jones CP, Boyd KL, Hicks DJ, Williams MM, Cook RS.Female nude mice (J:NU-Foxn1nu; age, 6 wk) were injected with 1 million MCF7human breast cancer cells in the fourth mammary fat pads and received a 21-dsustained-release estrogen pellet (0.25 mg) subcutaneously in the dorsum of theneck. All mice were maintained in sterile housing and provided sterile water and irradiated rodent chow. Approximately 6 wk after implantation, 4 of the 30 miceshowed clinical signs of depression and dehydration. The 2 animals most severely affected were euthanized and presented for necropsy. The urinary bladders ofthese animals were distended with variable sized white, opaque uroliths.Urinalysis revealed coccal bacteria, erythrocytes, neutrophils and struvitecrystals. Urine cultures from bothnecropsied animals grew heavy, pure growths of Staphylococcus xylosus. The organism was sensitive to all antibioticstestedexcept erythromycin (intermediate). Analysis of the uroliths revealed 100% struvite composition. Remaining mice in the study were evaluated clinically forhydration status, the ability to urinate, and the presence of palpable stones in the urinary bladder; one additional mouse had a firm, nonpainful bladder(urolithiasis suspected). Given the sensitivity of the organismscultured fromurine samples, the remaining mice were placed on enrofloxacin in the drinkingwater (0.5 mg/mL). All remaining mice completed the study without furthermorbidity or mortality. Previous studies have reported the association ofestrogen supplementation with urinary bladder pathology, including infection and urolithiasis. Here we present a case of urolithiasis and cystitis in nude micereceiving estrogen supplementation that was associated with Staphylococcusxylosus,which previously was unreported in this context. When assessing thesenude mice for urolithiasis, we found that visualizingthe stones through the body wall, bladder palpation, and bladder expression were helpful in identifyingaffected mice.DOI: 10.30802/AALAS-CM-18-000005 PMID: 30017019 