123. Cancer Treat Rev. 2018 Jun 28;69:132-142. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.06.015. [Epub ahead of print]Optimal sequence of adjuvant endocrine and radiation therapy in early-stagebreast cancer - A systematic review.McGee SF(1), Mazzarello S(2), Caudrelier JM(3), Lima MAG(4), Hutton B(5),Sienkiewicz M(2), Stober C(2), Fernandes R(6), Ibrahim MFK(1), Vandermeer L(2),Hilton J(7), Shorr R(8), Fergusson D(5), Clemons M(9).Author information: (1)Department of Medicine and Division of Medical Oncology, University of Ottawa,Ottawa, ON, Canada.(2)The Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.(3)Department of Radiation Medicine, The Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre, Ottawa,ON, Canada.(4)Instituto do Câncer do Estado de São Paulo, Faculdade de Medicina daUniversidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.(5)Clinical Epidemiology Department, The Ottawa Hospital Research Institute,Ottawa, ON, Canada.(6)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Oncology, Schulich School ofMedicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, ON, Canada.(7)Department of Medicine and Division of Medical Oncology, University of Ottawa,Ottawa, ON, Canada; The Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.(8)The Ottawa Hospital, Ottawa, ON, Canada.(9)Department of Medicine and Division of Medical Oncology, University of Ottawa,Ottawa, ON, Canada; The Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada.Electronic address: mclemons@toh.ca.IMPORTANCE: Clinical equipoise exists around the optimal time to start adjuvantendocrine therapy in patients who will receive post-operative radiotherapy forbreast cancer. Concerns continue to exist regarding potential reduced efficacy,or increased toxicity, when radiation, and endocrine therapy are administeredconcurrently.OBJECTIVE: To perform a systematic review of studies comparing outcomes betweensequential and concurrent adjuvant radiation and endocrine therapy in early-stagebreast cancer. All modalities of radiation therapy were considered, and endocrinetherapy could be either tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor. Outcomes of interestincluded; local, regional or distant recurrence, overall survival andtreatment-related toxicities.EVIDENCE REVIEWED: PubMed, Ovid Medline, EMBASE, and the Cochrane CentralRegister of Controlled Trials were searched from 1946 to December 2017. Tworeviewers independently assessed each citation using the criteria outlined above.Study quality was assessed using the Cochrane Collaboration's tool forprospective studies, and the Newcastle-Ottawa scale for retrospective studies.FINDINGS: Of 2137 unique citations identified, 13 met eligibility criteria.Eleven were unique studies (7569 patients), while 2 of the studies were updatedanalyses of previous studies. Studies evaluated the timing of adjuvant radiation,and tamoxifen (5 studies, 1550 patients), or aromatase inhibitors (6 studies,6019 patients). We identified 1 complete randomized clinical trial (150patients), and 5 retrospective studies (1580 patients), in addition to conferenceabstracts (5 studies, 5839 patients). Overall, none of the studies showed asignificant difference in efficacy, or toxicity, with concurrent versussequential treatment. However, given the significant heterogeneity of the studypopulations, it was not possible to conduct a meta-analysis.CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In the absence of high quality data, adequatelypowered randomized trials are required to answer this important clinicalquestion.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2018.06.015 PMID: 30014951 