193. J Radiat Res. 2018 Jul 12. doi: 10.1093/jrr/rry048. [Epub ahead of print]The conditioned medium of human mesenchymal stromal cells reducesirradiation-induced damage in cardiac fibroblast cells.Chen ZY(1), Hu YY(2), Hu XF(1), Cheng LX(1).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Cardiovascular Immunology, Institute of Cardiology, UnionHospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Jie-Fang Avenue 1277#, Wuhan, China.(2)Department of Pediatrics, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, HuazhongUniversity of Science and Technology, Jie-Fang Avenue 1277#, Wuhan, China.Recently, multipotent mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) treatment has attractedspecial attention as a new alternative strategy for stimulating regeneration.Irradiation myocardial fibrosis (IMF) is a major complication associated withtotal body irradiation for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, nuclearaccidents, and thoracic radiotherapy for lung cancer, esophageal cancer, proximalgastric cancer, breast cancer, thymoma, and lymphoma. The aim of the presentstudy was to assess the therapeutic paracrine effects of human umbilicalcord-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (UC-MSCs) in the cell model of IMF. Forthis purpose, primary human cardiac fibroblasts (HCF) cells were irradiated andcultured with the conditioned medium of UC-MSCs (MSCCM). MSCCM promoted cellviability, reduced collagen deposition as measured by Sircol assay and qPCR(Col1A1 and Col1A2), prevented oxidative stress and increased antioxidant status (as measured by malondialdehyde content and the activities and mRNA levels ofantioxidant enzymes), and reduced pro-fibrotic TGF-β1, IL-6 and IL-8 levels (asexamined by ELISA kit and qPCR). Pretreatment with inhibitor of NF-κB led to adecrease in the levels of TGF-β1 in cell lysate of HCF cells by ELISA kit.Furthermore, we also found that MSCCM prevented NF-κB signaling pathwayactivation for its proinflammatory actions induced by irradiation. Takentogether, our data suggest that MSCCM could reduce irradiation-induced TGF-β1production through inhibition of the NF-κB signaling pathway. These data provide new insights into the functional actions of MSCCM on irradiation myocardialfibrosis.DOI: 10.1093/jrr/rry048 PMID: 30010837 