130. Stat Med. 2018 Jul 16. doi: 10.1002/sim.7842. [Epub ahead of print]Multiple imputation in Cox regression when there are time-varying effects ofcovariates.Keogh RH(1), Morris TP(2).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Statistics, London School of Hygiene and TropicalMedicine, London, UK.(2)London Hub for Trials Methodology Research, MRC Clinical Trials Unit at UCL,Aviation House, London, UK.In Cox regression, it is important to test the proportional hazards assumptionand sometimes of interest in itself to study time-varying effects (TVEs) ofcovariates. TVEs can be investigated with log hazard ratios modelled as afunction of time. Missing data on covariates are common and multiple imputationis a popular approach to handling this to avoid the potential bias and efficiencyloss resulting from a "complete-case" analysis. Two multiple imputation methodshave been proposed for when the substantive model is a Cox proportional hazardsregression: an approximate method (Imputing missing covariate values for the Cox model in Statistics in Medicine (2009) by White and Royston) and asubstantive-model-compatible method (Multiple imputation of covariates by fullyconditional specification: accommodating the substantive model in StatisticalMethods in Medical Research (2015) by Bartlett et al). At present, neitheraccommodates TVEs of covariates. We extend them to do so for a general form forthe TVEs and give specific details for TVEs modelled using restricted cubicsplines. Simulation studies assess the performance of the methods under severalunderlying shapes for TVEs. Our proposed methods give approximately unbiased TVE estimates for binary covariates with missing data, but for continuous covariates,the substantive-model-compatible method performs better. The methods also giveapproximately correct type I errors in the test for proportional hazards whenthere is no TVE and gain power to detect TVEs relative to complete-case analysis.Ignoring TVEs at the imputation stage results in biased TVE estimates, incorrect type I errors, and substantial loss of power in detecting TVEs. We also propose amultivariable TVE model selection algorithm. The methods are illustrated usingdata from the Rotterdam Breast Cancer Study. R code is provided.© 2018 The Authors. Statistics in Medicine Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/sim.7842 PMID: 30014575 