91. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2018 Jul 17:e12875. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12875. [Epub aheadof print]Relationships between supportive care needs and perceived burden in breast cancersurvivor-caregiver dyads.Kemp E(1)(2), Prior K(1)(2), Beatty L(1)(2), Lambert SD(3)(4), Brown C(5),Koczwara B(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Oncology, College of Medicine and Public Health,Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.(2)Flinders Centre for Innovation in Cancer, Bedford Park, South Australia,Australia.(3)Ingram School of Nursing, McGill University, Montreal, Québec, Canada.(4)St. Mary's Research Centre, St. Mary's Hospital, Montreal, Québec, Canada.(5)University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.While burden in cancer caregivers is high and associated with poor outcomes,little is known about significance of specific supportive care needs' domains in determining survivors' or caregivers' perceived caregiver burden. Thiscross-sectional study explored which domains of survivor- and caregiver-reported supportive care needs were most associated with survivor- and caregiver-reported caregiver burden, in breast cancer survivor-caregiver dyads. Cancer survivors(N = 55) and their caregivers (N = 44) completed measures of supportive careneeds, anxiety, depression, functional well-being and perceived caregiver burden.Correlation and linear regression analyses were used to determine relativesignificance of survivor and caregiver supportive care needs in accounting forvariance in survivor and caregiver perceptions of burden. Highersurvivor-perceived caregiver burden and higher caregiver-perceived difficulty of caregiving were associated with higher levels of survivor and caregiversupportive care needs. Survivors' psychological needs uniquely contributed tosurvivors' self-perceived burden, and survivors' sexual needs and caregivers'work and social needs uniquely contributed to caregivers' perceived difficulty ofcaregiving. Caregiver's perceived time spent caregiving was associated withaccess to services needs but not other needs. Survivor and caregiver supportivecare needs and burden appear interdependent. Longitudinal research with largersamples is warranted to examine these relationships.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12875 PMID: 30015995 