115. J Cell Biochem. 2018 Jul 17. doi: 10.1002/jcb.27157. [Epub ahead of print]Computational and biochemical studies of isothiocyanates as inhibitors ofproteasomal cysteine deubiquitinases in human cancer cells.Ahmed ZSO(1)(2), Li X(1)(3), Li F(1)(4), Cheaito HA(1), Patel K(1), MosallamEM(2), Elbargeesy GAEH(2), Dou QP(1).Author information: (1)Barbara Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute, Departments of Oncology, Pharmacology, and Pathology, School of Medicine, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan.(2)Department of Cytology and Histology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, CairoUniversity, Giza, Egypt.(3)Department of Biotechnology, Guangdong Polytechnic of Science and Trade,Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.(4)Department of Food Science, College of Food Science and Engineering, Shandong Agricultural University, Tai'an, China.Isothiocyanates (ITCs) are natural chemoprotective products found abundantly incruciferous vegetables. However, the cancer-relevant targets and molecularmechanisms of ITCs remain unclear. We hypothesize that ITCs, as electrophiles,can interact with the catalytic triads (CYS, HIS, and ASP) of the proteasomalcysteine deubiquitinases USP14 and UCHL5, ultimately inhibiting their activities.In the current study, we exploited this possibility by performing bothcomputational docking and biochemical validation assays using human breast andprostate cancer cell models. Docking results suggest that benzyl isothiocyanate, phenethyl isothiocyanate, and DL-sulforaphane are more potent inhibitors of UCHL5than USP14, and these ITCs could interact with the catalytic triads of UCHL5 and USP14. Indeed, ubiquitin vinyl sulfone assay confirmed the inhibitory activity ofeach ITC on the ubiquitin-binding activity of UCHL5 and USP14. We also found thatinhibition of USP-14 and UCHL5 activities by the ITCs caused increased levels of USP14 and UCHL5 proteins, but not the third 19S-deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB),POH1/RPN11, suggesting feedback loop activation and further supporting that ITCs are inhibitors of proteasomal cysteine DUBs. Associated with DUB inhibition byITCs, ubiquitinated proteins were significantly increased, accompanied withinduction of apoptosis, inhibition of proliferation and suppression of cellinvasion. Our findings of ITCs as proteasomal cysteine DUB inhibitors shouldprovide insightful information for designing, discovering and developing potent, specific 19S-DUB inhibitors for cancer therapies.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., A Wiley Company.DOI: 10.1002/jcb.27157 PMID: 30015387 