167. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2018 Aug 1;101(5):1149-1158. doi:10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.04.075. Epub 2018 May 5.A Randomized Comparison of Radiation Therapy Techniques in the Management ofNode-Positive Breast Cancer: Primary Outcomes Analysis.Jagsi R(1), Griffith KA(2), Moran JM(3), Ficaro E(4), Marsh R(3), Dess RT(3),Chung E(3), Liss AL(3), Hayman JA(3), Mayo CS(3), Flaherty K(5), Corbett J(6),Pierce L(3).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.Electronic address: rjagsi@med.umich.edu.(2)Center for Cancer Biostatistics, University of Michigan School of PublicHealth, Ann Arbor, Michigan.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.(4)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.(6)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan;Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.PURPOSE: Although inverse-planned intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) anddeep inspiration breath hold (DIBH) may allow for more conformal dosedistributions, it is unknown whether using these technologies reduces cardiac or pulmonary toxicity of breast radiotherapy.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A randomized controlled trial compared IMRT-DIBH versusstandard, free-breathing, forward-planned, three-dimensional conformalradiotherapy in patients with left-sided, node-positive breast cancer in whom theinternal mammary nodal region was targeted. Endpoints included dosimetricparameters and changes in pulmonary and cardiac perfusion and function, measured by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scans and pulmonaryfunction testing performed at baseline and 1 year post treatment.RESULTS: Of 62 patients randomized, 54 who completed all follow-up procedureswere analyzed. Mean doses to the ipsilateral lung, left ventricle, whole heart,and left anterior descending coronary artery were lower with IMRT-DIBH; thepercent of left ventricle receiving ≥5 Gy averaged 15.8% with standardradiotherapy and 5.6% with IMRT-DIBH (P < .001). SPECT revealed no differences inperfusion defects in the left anterior descending coronary artery territory, the study's primary endpoint, but did reveal statistically significant differences(P = .02) in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), a secondary endpoint. No differences were found for lung perfusion or function.CONCLUSION: The small but statistically significant benefit in preservation ofcardiac LVEF observed here should motivate future studies that include LVEF as a potentially meaningful endpoint. Future studies should disaggregate the impact ofIMRT from that of DIBH. Clinical practice should recognize the importance ofminimizing cardiac dose, even when already low in comparison to historicallevels.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2018.04.075 PMID: 30012527 