Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist. Parts of the results were presented in an abstract form at Asia Oncology Summit 2016, Kyoto, Japan.189. PLoS One. 2018 Jul 16;13(7):e0199336. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199336.eCollection 2018.Arab female and male perceptions of factors facilitating and inhibiting theirphysical activity: Findings from a qualitative study in the Middle East.Donnelly TT(1), Al-Thani ABM(2), Benjamin K(3), Al-Khater AH(4), Fung TS(1),Ahmedna M(5), Welch A(6).Author information: (1)Faculty of Nursing and Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta,Canada.(2)Qatar Ministry of Public Health, Public Health Department, Doha, Qatar.(3)University of Calgary-Qatar, Doha, Qatar.(4)National Center for Cancer Care & Research, Hamad Medical Corporation, Doha,Qatar.(5)Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.(6)University of East Anglia, Norwich, Norfolk, United Kingdom.OBJECTIVES: Physical inactivity is a leading global risk to health bycontributing to obesity and other chronic diseases. Many chronic non-communicablediseases, such as cancer, diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), can beprevented and controlled by modifying lifestyle behaviors such as physicalactivity [PA]. However, prevalence of insufficient physical activity and obesity is high in the Middle East Region. In Qatar, the incidence rates of CVDs,diabetes, colon, and breast cancer have been rising rapidly. The purpose of this study was to explore facilitators and barriers influencing PA of adult Arab menand women living in Qatar and to understand what they think would be helpful toincrease PA. The goal of the research is to identify culturally appropriate andeffective interventions that improve the health of Arab population.DESIGN: Using the socioecological model as the theoretical framework, weconducted an exploratory qualitative study with 128 Arab adult men and womenliving in Qatar. We utilized focus group interviews to collect the data andperformed thematic analysis to generate themes.RESULTS: At the individual level, perceived benefits of PA, presence of diseases,person's will, motivation and goals, and time to exercise influenced theindividual's PA. At the sociocultural level, religious teachings of Islam,cultural, attitude, beliefs, and practices, and informal support influenced theparticipants' PA. At the organizational and political level, physical environmentto exercise, accessibility of facilities, organizational support, and healthinformation about PA influenced their PA.CONCLUSION: Arab men and women are aware of the importance and benefits of PA.They have the motivation to be physically active, but in the absence ofsupportive environment, their knowledge might not translate into action. Creatingsupportive environments at multiple levels that are conducive to PA is warranted.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199336 PMCID: PMC6047779PMID: 30011280 