171. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jul 20. pii: S1742-7061(18)30419-7. doi:10.1016/j.actbio.2018.07.025. [Epub ahead of print]Rational design of multimodal therapeutic nanosystems for effective inhibition oftumor growth and metastasis.Wang F(1), Huang Q(2), Wang Y(3), Zhang W(3), Lin R(4), Yu Y(3), Shen Y(3), CuiH(5), Guo S(6).Author information: (1)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, PR China; Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Johns Hopkins University,Baltimore, MD 21218, United States; Institute for NanoBiotechnology (INBT), JohnsHopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218, United States.(2)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns HopkinsUniversity School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, United States.(3)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, PR China.(4)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Johns Hopkins University,Baltimore, MD 21218, United States; Institute for NanoBiotechnology (INBT), JohnsHopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218, United States.(5)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Johns Hopkins University,Baltimore, MD 21218, United States; Institute for NanoBiotechnology (INBT), JohnsHopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218, United States; Department of Oncologyand Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University School ofMedicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, United States. Electronic address: hcui6@jhu.edu.(6)School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, PR China. Electronic address: srguo@sjtu.edu.cn.Simultaneous inhibition of both tumor growth and metastasis is the key totreating metastatic cancer, yet the development of effective drug deliverysystems represents a great challenge since multimodal therapeutic agents must be rationally combined to overcome the biological mechanisms underpinning tumor cellproliferation and invasion. In this context, we report a hybrid therapeuticnanoscale platform that incorporates an anti-proliferative drug, doxorubicin(DOX), and an anti-NF-κB agent, p65-shRNA, for effective treatment of metastatic breast cancer. In our design, we first conjugated DOX via an acid-labile linkeronto gold nanorods that were pre-modified with the tumor targeting peptide RGDand a positively charged, disulfide cross-linked short polyethylenimines (DSPEI),and then incorporated shRNA through electrostatic complexation with DSPEI. Weshow that this "all in one" nanotherapeutic system (RDG/shRNA@DOX) can beeffectively internalized through RGD-mediated endocytosis, followed bystimuli-responsive intracellular co-release of DOX and shRNA. Our in vitroexperiments suggest that this multimodal system can significantly inhibit cellproliferation, angiogenesis, and invasion of metastatic MDA-MB-435 cancer cells. Systemic administration of RDG/shRNA@DOX into a metastatic mouse model led toenhanced tumor accumulation, and, most importantly, significant inhibition of in situ tumor growth and almost complete suppression of tumor metastasis. We believethis hybrid multimodal nanotherapeutic system provides important insight into therational design of therapeutic systems for the effective treatment of metastatic carcinoma.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The key to successfully treat metastaticcancer is the simultaneous inhibition of both tumor growth and metastasis. Thisrepresents a great challenge for the design of drug delivery systems sincemultimodal therapeutic agents must be rationally combined to overcome therespective biological mechanisms underpinning tumor cell proliferation andinvasion. Toward this end, we developed a hybrid nanomedicine platform thatincorporates an anti-proliferative drug, doxorubicin (DOX), and an anti-NF-κBagent, p65-shRNA, for effective treatment of metastatic breast cancer. We showed that this multimodal system (RDG/shRNA@DOX) enhanced tumor accumulation, led toprolonged circulation, and most importantly, significant inhibition of in situtumor growth and almost complete suppression of tumor metastasis. We believe thishybrid multimodal nanotherapeutic system provides significant insight into therational design of therapeutic systems for the effective treatment of metastatic cancer.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.07.025 PMID: 30012354 