81. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2018 Jul 18;123:56-69. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2018.07.028. [Epubahead of print]Reversal of epigenetic aberrations associated with the acquisition of doxorubicinresistance restores drug sensitivity in breast cancer cells.Ponnusamy L(1), Mahalingaiah PKS(1), Chang YW(1), Singh KP(2).Author information: (1)Department of Environmental Toxicology, The Institute of Environmental andHuman Health (TIEHH), Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX 79409, USA.(2)Department of Environmental Toxicology, The Institute of Environmental andHuman Health (TIEHH), Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX 79409, USA. Electronicaddress: kamaleshwar.singh@ttu.edu.Acquired resistance against doxorubicin is a major limitation in clinicaltreatment of breast cancer. The molecular mechanism behind the aberrantexpression of genes leading to doxorubicin resistance is not clear. Epigeneticchanges play an important role in the regulation of gene expression. Therefore,the objective of this study was to identify the epigenetic mechanism underlyingacquired doxorubicin resistance in breast cancer cells. Doxorubicin-resistantcells were selected by repeated exposure of MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 breast cancercell lines to clinically relevant doses of doxorubicin for 18 months. MTT assay, cell cycle analysis, colony formation, qRT-PCR, and Western blot analyses wereused to characterize the epigenetic and molecular mechanism. Pyrosequencing wasused to detect MSH2 promoter hypermethylation. Aberrant expression of epigenetic regulatory genes, a significant increase in H3 acetylation and methylation, aswell as promoter hypermethylation-mediated inactivation of MSH2 gene wereassociated with the acquired resistant phenotype. Demethylating agent5-Aza-deoxycytidine and HDAC inhibitor Trichostatin A significantly re-sensitizedresistant cells to doxorubicin. Findings of this study revealed that epigeneticaberrations including promoter hypermethylation-mediated inactivation MSH2contribute to the acquisition of doxorubicin resistance in breast cancer cells.Additionally, our data suggest that some of these epigenetic aberrations areprogressive during resistance development and therefore can potentially be usedas biomarkers for early detection of resistance. These epigenetic aberrations,being reversible, can also serve as targets for epigenetic therapy tore-sensitize doxorubicin-resistant breast cancer cells. Epigenetic inactivationof mismatch repair gene MSH2 further suggests that loss of MMR-dependentapoptotic potential could be a novel mechanistic basis for the acquisition ofdoxorubicin resistance in breast cancer cells.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2018.07.028 PMID: 30016648 