170. Complement Ther Med. 2018 Aug;39:114-130. doi: 10.1016/j.ctim.2018.05.018. Epub2018 Jun 8.Pilates in noncommunicable diseases: A systematic review of its effects.Miranda S(1), Marques A(2).Author information: (1)Lab 3R - Respiratory Research and Rehabilitation Laboratory, School of Health Sciences, University of Aveiro (ESSUA), Aveiro, Portugal; iBiMED - Institute for Biomedicine (iBiMED), University of Aveiro, Aveiro, Portugal. Electronic address:sara.souto@ua.pt.(2)Lab 3R - Respiratory Research and Rehabilitation Laboratory, School of Health Sciences, University of Aveiro (ESSUA), Aveiro, Portugal; iBiMED - Institute for Biomedicine (iBiMED), University of Aveiro, Aveiro, Portugal. Electronic address:amarques@ua.pt.OBJECTIVES: Chronic cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseasesand diabetes are the four major groups of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) andthe main cause of mortality worldwide. Pilates has been described as an effectiveintervention to promote healthy behaviors and physical activity in people withchronic diseases. However, the evidence of its effects in NCDs have not beensystematized. We investigated the effects of Pilates in the four major groups of NCDs.DESIGN: A systematic review was performed. Searches were conducted on CochraneLibrary, EBSCO, PubMed, Science Direct, Scopus and Web of Science databases.Studies were rated with the quality assessment tool for quantitative studies. As a meta-analysis was not possible to conduct, a best-evidence synthesis was used.RESULTS: Twelve studies, mostly of moderate quality, were included with 491participants (78.6% females; age range 13-70 years old) with breast cancer(n = 3), diabetes (n = 3), chronic stroke (2 years post stroke) (n = 2), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (n = 1), cystic fibrosis (n = 1), heart failure(n = 1) and arterial hypertension (n = 1). The best-evidence synthesis revealedstrong evidence for improving exercise tolerance; moderate evidence for improvingsymptoms, muscle strength and health-related quality of life and limited orconflicting evidence on vital signs, metabolic parameters, body composition,respiratory function, functional status, balance, flexibility and social support.CONCLUSIONS: Pilates should be considered for patients with NCDs, as it improves exercise tolerance. Future studies with robust methodologies are still needed to clarify its effectiveness on outcomes with moderate, limited or conflictingevidence and to establish the most suitable intervention protocol.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ctim.2018.05.018 PMID: 30012382 