4. J Cell Mol Med. 2018 Jul 16. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.13727. [Epub ahead of print]Dipalmitoylphosphatidic acid inhibits breast cancer growth by suppressingangiogenesis via inhibition of the CUX1/FGF1/HGF signalling pathway.Chen J(1), Zhou Z(1), Yao Y(1), Dai J(2)(3), Zhou D(1), Wang L(1), Zhang QQ(1).Author information: (1)Vascular Biology Research Institute, School of Basic Course, GuangdongPharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, China.(2)GMU-GIBH Joint School of Life Sciences, Guangzhou Medical University,Guangzhou, China.(3)The State Key Lab of Respiratory Disease, Guangzhou Institute of RespiratoryDisease, The First Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, China.Tumour growth depends on a continual supply of the nutrients and oxygen, whichare offered by tumour angiogenesis. Our previous study showed thatdipalmitoylphosphatidic acid (DPPA), a bioactive phospholipid, inhibits thegrowth of triple-negative breast cancer cells. However, its direct effect onangiogenesis remains unknown. Our work showed that DPPA significantly suppressed vascular growth in the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) and yolk sacmembrane (YSM) models. Meanwhile, tumour angiogenesis and tumour growth wereinhibited by DPPA in the tumour tissues of an experimental breast cancer model, asubcutaneous xenograft mouse model and a genetically engineered spontaneousbreast cancer mouse model (MMTV-PyMT). Furthermore, DPPA directly inhibited theproliferation, migration and tube formation of vascular endothelial cells. Theanti-angiogenic effect of DPPA was regulated by the inhibition of Cut-likehomeobox1 (CUX1), which transcriptionally inhibited fibroblast growth factor 1(FGF1), leading to the downregulation of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Thiswork first demonstrates that DPPA directly inhibits angiogenesis in cancerdevelopment. Our previous work along with this study suggest that DPPA functions as an anti-tumour therapeutic drug that inhibits angiogenesis.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.13727 PMID: 30010249 