129. Genes Chromosomes Cancer. 2018 Jul 17. doi: 10.1002/gcc.22663. [Epub ahead ofprint]Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans with a novel COL6A3-PDGFD fusion gene andapparent predilection for breast.Dickson BC(1), Hornick JL(2), Fletcher CDM(2), Demicco EG(1), Howarth DJ(1),Swanson D(1), Zhang L(3), Sung YS(3), Antonescu CR(3).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital andDepartment of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto,Toronto, ON, Canada.(2)Department of Pathology, Brigham & Women's Hospital and Department ofPathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY,USA.Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans is a locally aggressive superficial mesenchymalneoplasm. It typically occurs in adulthood, and has been reported to have aslight male predilection. Tumors have a characteristic histopathologicappearance, including: storiform architecture, infiltrative 'honeycomb' growthwithin subcutaneous adipose tissue, and immunoreactivity for CD34. Virtually all molecularly characterized cases to date have been found to harbor a COL1A1-PDGFB fusion product. Following identification of an index patient with a novelCOL6A3-PDGFD fusion gene, we undertook a molecular investigation, using acombination of RNA sequencing and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), toassess the prevalence of PDGFD rearrangement in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans(N = 63). Three additional patients were found to have balanced PDGFDrearrangements. Interestingly, all 4 tumors arose on the breast of females. As a result, we subsequently examined 16 additional cases of primary breastdermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, identifying 2 additional tumors with PDGFDrearrangement. The morphology and immunophenotype of all 6 cases was analogous tothose with the canonical COL1A1-PDGFB fusion; none of the cases showedfibrosarcomatous transformation. This study illustrates that the COL6A3-PDGFDfusion product is rare in dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, and associated with anapparent predilection for breast. An awareness of this variant is important forpathologists, as it will not be detected using conventional reverse transcriptionpolymerase chain reaction or FISH-based diagnostic assays for dermatofibrosarcomaprotuberans. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/gcc.22663 PMID: 30014607 