72. BMC Bioinformatics. 2018 Jul 17;19(1):271. doi: 10.1186/s12859-018-2260-9.HGT-ID: an efficient and sensitive workflow to detect human-viral insertion sitesusing next-generation sequencing data.Baheti S(1), Tang X(1), O'Brien DR(1), Chia N(2), Roberts LR(3), Nelson H(2),Boughey JC(2), Wang L(4), Goetz MP(4)(5), Kocher JA(1), Kalari KR(6).Author information: (1)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Department of HealthSciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(2)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(4)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, MayoClinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(5)Department of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.(6)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Department of HealthSciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. kalari.krishna@mayo.edu.BACKGROUND: Transfer of genetic material from microbes or viruses into the hostgenome is known as horizontal gene transfer (HGT). The integration of virusesinto the human genome is associated with multiple cancers, and these can now bedetected using next-generation sequencing methods such as whole genome sequencingand RNA-sequencing.RESULTS: We designed a novel computational workflow, HGT-ID, to identify theintegration of viruses into the human genome using the sequencing data. TheHGT-ID workflow primarily follows a four-step procedure: i) pre-processing ofunaligned reads, ii) virus detection using subtraction approach, iii)identification of virus integration site using discordant and soft-clipped reads and iv) HGT candidates prioritization through a scoring function. Annotation and visualization of the events, as well as primer design for experimentalvalidation, are also provided in the final report. We evaluated the toolperformance with the well-understood cervical cancer samples. The HGT-ID workflowaccurately detected known human papillomavirus (HPV) integration sites with high sensitivity and specificity compared to previous HGT methods. We applied HGT-IDto The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) whole-genome sequencing data (WGS) from livertumor-normal pairs. Multiple hepatitis B virus (HBV) integration sites wereidentified in TCGA liver samples and confirmed by HGT-ID using the RNA-Seq datafrom the matched liver pairs. This shows the applicability of the method in both the data types and cross-validation of the HGT events in liver samples. We alsoprocessed 220 breast tumor WGS data through the workflow; however, there were no HGT events detected in those samples.CONCLUSIONS: HGT-ID is a novel computational workflow to detect the integrationof viruses in the human genome using the sequencing data. It is fast and accuratewith functions such as prioritization, annotation, visualization and primerdesign for future validation of HGTs. The HGT-ID workflow is released under theMIT License and available at http://kalarikrlab.org/Software/HGT-ID.html .DOI: 10.1186/s12859-018-2260-9 PMCID: PMC6050683PMID: 30016933 