35. Biomater Sci. 2018 Jul 18. doi: 10.1039/c8bm00548f. [Epub ahead of print]In vivo tailor-made protein corona of a prodrug-based nanoassembly fabricated by redox dual-sensitive paclitaxel prodrug for the superselective treatment ofbreast cancer.Zhang D(1), Yang J(2), Guan J(1), Yang B(1), Zhang S(1), Sun M(1), Yang R(3),Zhang T(1), Zhang R(1), Kan Q(4), Zhang H(4), He Z(1), Shang L(5), Sun J(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Wuya College of Innovation, ShenyangPharmaceutical University, Shenyang, China. sunjin@syphu.edu.cn.(2)School of Pharmaceutical Engineering, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University,Shenyang, China.(3)Chongqing LUMMY Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Chongqing, China.(4)Department of Pharmacology, Shenyang Pharmaceutical University, Shenyang,China.(5)College of Basic Medical Sciences, Shenyang Medical College, Shenyang, China. shanglei6677@163.com.Prodrug self-nanoassemblies have many advantages for anticancer drug delivery,including high drug loading rate, resistance to recrystallization, and on-demand drug release. However, few studies have focused on their protein corona, which isinevitably formed after entering the blood and determines their subsequent fates in vivo. To actively tune the protein corona of prodrug nanoassemblies, threemaleimide-paclitaxel prodrugs were synthesized via different redox-sensitivelinkers (ester bond, thioether bond and disulfide bond). After incubation withrat plasma, the surface maleimide groups effectively captured albumins, resultingin albumin-enriched protein corona. The recruited albumin corona enabled enhancedtumor accumulation and facilitated cellular uptake, ensuring the high-efficiency delivery of nanoassemblies to tumor cells. Surprisingly, we found that thetraditionally reduction-sensitive disulfide bond could also be triggered byreactive oxygen species (ROS). Such a redox dual-responsive drug release propertyof the disulfide bond-containing prodrug nanoassemblies further increased theselectivity in cytotoxicity between normal and tumor cells. Moreover, thedisulfide bond-containing prodrug nanoassemblies exhibited the highest antitumor efficacy in vivo compared to marketed Abraxane® and other prodrug nanoassemblies.Thus, the fabrication of the maleimide-decorated disulfide bond bridged prodrugnanoassembly, integrating a tunable protein corona and on-demand drug release, isa promising strategy for improved cancer chemotherapy.DOI: 10.1039/c8bm00548f PMID: 30019051 