16. Gene. 2018 Jul 15. pii: S0378-1119(18)30809-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.07.035.[Epub ahead of print]Diverse roles of fatty acid binding proteins (FABPs) in development andpathogenesis of cancers.Amiri M(1), Yousefnia S(2), Forootan FS(3), Peymani M(4), Ghaedi K(5), EsfahaniMHN(6).Author information: (1)Department of Modern Biology, ACECR Institute of Higher Education (IsfahanBranch), Isfahan, Iran.(2)Division of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.(3)Department of Cellular Biotechnology at Cell Science research Center, RoyanInstitute of Biotechnology, ACECR, Isfahan, Iran; Legal Medicine research Center,Legal Medicine Organization, Tehran, Iran. Electronic address:fsforootan@royaninstitute.org.(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Sciences, Shahrekord Branch, IslamicAzad University, Shahrekord, Iran; Legal Medicine research Center, Legal MedicineOrganization, Tehran, Iran.(5)Division of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran; Department of CellularBiotechnology at Cell Science research Center, Royan Institute of Biotechnology, ACECR, Isfahan, Iran. Electronic address: kamranghaedi@royaninstitute.org.(6)Department of Cellular Biotechnology at Cell Science research Center, RoyanInstitute of Biotechnology, ACECR, Isfahan, Iran.One of the most importantly involved pathways in cancer development is fatty-acidsignaling pathway. Synthesized lipids as energetic sources are consumed by cancercells for proliferation, growth, survival, invasion and angiogenesis. Fatty acidsas signaling compounds regulate metabolic and transcriptional networks, survival pathways and inflammatory responses. Aggregation of fatty acids with fatty acidbinding proteins (FABPs) facilitates their transportation to different cellorganelles. FABPs, a group of lipid binding proteins modulate fatty acidmetabolism, cell growth and proliferation and cancer development. They may beused as tumor marker in some cancers. FABPs are expressed in most malignanciessuch as prostate, breast, liver, bladder and lung cancer which are associatedwith the incidence, proliferation, metastasis, invasion of tumors. This reviewintroduces several isoforms of FABPs (FABP1-12) and summarizes their function andtheir possible roles in cancer development through some proposed mechanisms.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.07.035 PMID: 30021130 