191. J Gen Intern Med. 2018 Jul 18. doi: 10.1007/s11606-018-4571-y. [Epub ahead ofprint]The Value of Outpatient Imaging-Based Cancer Screening Episodes.Liao JM(1)(2)(3), Basu A(4), Lee CI(5)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA. joshliao@uw.edu.(2)Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, Wharton School, University ofPennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. joshliao@uw.edu.(3)UW Medicine Value and Systems Science Lab, Seattle, WA, USA. joshliao@uw.edu.(4)The Comparative Health Outcomes, Policy, and Economics (CHOICE) Institute,School of Pharmacy, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA,USA.(5)Department of Radiology, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle,WA, USA.(6)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Hutchinson Institute for CancerOutcomes Research, Seattle, WA, USA.In order to shift US health care towards greater value, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is exploring outpatient episode-based cost measuresunder the new Quality Payment Program and planning a bundled payment program thatwill introduce the first ever outpatient episodes of care. One novel approach to capitalize on this paradigm shift and extend bundled payment policies is toengage primary care physicians and specialists by bundling outpatient imagingstudies and associated procedures-central tools in disease screening anddiagnosis, but also tools that are expensive and susceptible to increasing healthcare costs and patient harm. For example, both breast and lung cancer screeningrepresent target areas ripe for bundled payment given high associated costs andvariation in management strategies and suboptimal care coordination betweenresponsible clinicians. Benefits to imaging-based screening episodes includestronger alignment between providers (primary care physicians, radiologists, and other clinicians), reduction in unwarranted variation, creation ofappropriateness standards, and ability to overcome barriers to cancer screeningadherence. Implementation considerations include safeguarding against providersinappropriately withholding care as well as ensuring that accountability andfinancial risk are distributed appropriately among responsible clinicians.DOI: 10.1007/s11606-018-4571-y PMID: 30022411 