148. J Agric Food Chem. 2018 Aug 1. doi: 10.1021/acs.jafc.8b03100. [Epub ahead ofprint]Physiological Relevance of the Antiproliferative and Estrogenic Effects ofDietary Polyphenol Aglycones versus Their Phase-II Metabolites on Breast CancerCells: A Call of Caution.Ávila-Gálvez MÁ(1), Espín JC(1), González-Sarrías A(1).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Food and Health, Research Group on Quality, Safety andBioactivity of Plant Foods, Department of Food Science and Technology ,CEBAS-CSIC , P.O. Box 164, Campus de Espinardo , Murcia 30100 , Spain.While preclinical studies suggest the breast cancer (BC) chemopreventive effects of dietary polyphenols, the human evidence is still very weak. The huge existing in vitro-in vivo gap is mainly due to the plethora of potential effects reported by in vitro studies that usually assay polyphenols as occurring in the food(beverages, extracts, foods) and/or derived aglycone metabolites with doubtfulphysiological relevance. Since phase-II metabolites can reach systemic tissuessuch as malignant breast tumors, we aimed here to compare for the first time the antiproliferative and estrogenic/antiestrogenic effects of dietary polyphenolsand microbiota-derived metabolites (i.e., resveratrol, dihydroresveratrol,urolithins (A, B, and Isourolithin A), and the flavanone hesperetin), with those effects exerted by their physiologically relevant glucuronides and sulfates onhuman BC cell lines (MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7). Results showed that aglycones exerteddose-dependent antiproliferative and estrogenic/antiestrogenic activities, butboth their glucuronide and sulfate conjugates lacked these activities. Inaddition, aglycones underwent phase-II metabolism in BC cells, mainly viasulfation, which determined the cell-dependent differences in the effectsobserved. Therefore, phase-II metabolism limits the antiproliferative,estrogenic, and antiestrogenic activities of dietary polyphenols on BC cells.Likewise, as a call of caution, enthusiasm should be limited for publishingeffects that are not physiologically relevant.DOI: 10.1021/acs.jafc.8b03100 PMID: 30025453 