145. J Chemother. 2018 Jul 20:1-10. doi: 10.1080/1120009X.2018.1487149. [Epub ahead ofprint]Vinorelbine's anti-tumor actions may depend on the mitotic apoptosis, autophagyand inflammation: hypotheses with implications for chemo-immunotherapy ofadvanced cancers and pediatric gliomas.Altinoz MA(1), Ozpinar A(2), Alturfan EE(3), Elmaci I(1).Author information: (1)a Department of Neurosurgery , Neuroacademy Group, Memorial Hospital ,Istanbul , Turkey.(2)b Department of Medical Biochemistry , Acibadem University , Istanbul ,Turkey.(3)c Department of Medical Biochemistry , Marmara University , Istanbul , Turkey.Vinorelbine is a very potent chemotherapeutic agent which is used to treat anumber of cancers including breast and non-small cell lung tumors. Vinorelbinemainly acts via blocking microtubules and induces a specific type of cell deathcalled 'mitotic catastrophe/apoptosis' subsequent to mitotic slippage, which isthe failure of cells to stay in a mitotic arrested state and replicating theirDNA without cytokinesis. Glial tumor cells are especially sensitive to mitoticslippage. In recent years, vinorelbine demonstrated potency in pediatric opticand pontine gliomas. In this manuscript, we propose that vinorelbine's anti-tumoractions involve mitotic apoptosis, autophagy and inflammation. Intravenousinfusion of vinorelbine induces a peculiar severe pain in the tumor site andpatients with highly vascularized, oedematous and necrotic tumors areparticularly vulnerable to this pain. Severe pain is a sign of robustinflammation and anti-inflammatory agents are used in treatment of this sideeffect. However, no one has questioned whether inflammation contributes toanti-tumor effects of vinorelbine, despite the existing data that vinorelbineinduces Toll-Like Receptor-4 (TLR4), cytokines and cell death in endothelialcells especially under hypoxia. Robust inflammation may contribute to tumornecrosis such as seen during immunotherapy with lipopolysaccharides (LPS).Evidence also emerges that enhanced cyclooxygenase activity may increase cancercell death in certain contexts. There are data indicating that non-steroidalanti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) could block anti-tumor efficacy of taxanes,which also work mainly via anti-microtubule actions. Further, combiningvinorelbine with immunostimulant cytokines provided encouraging results in faradvanced melanoma and renal cell carcinoma, which are highly antigenic tumors.Vinorelbine also showed potential in treatment of inflammatory breast cancer.Finally, pontine gliomas - where partial activity of vinorelbine is shown by somestudies - are also tumors which partially respond to immune stimulation. Animalexperiments shall be conducted whether TLR4-activating molecules orimmune-checkpoint inhibitors could augment anti-tumor actions of vinorelbine.Noteworthy, TLR4-activation seems as the most promising way of cancerimmunotherapy, as a high percentage of molecules which demonstrated clinicalbenefits in cancer treatment are activators of TLR4, including BCG vaccine,monophosphoryl lipid A and picibanil (OKT-432). The provided data would bemeaningful for the oncological practice.DOI: 10.1080/1120009X.2018.1487149 PMID: 30025492 