Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: No competing interests were disclosed.11. Radiation Oncology, Hyperthermia for Chest Wall Recurrences.Youssef I(1), Amin NP(2).In: StatPearls [Internet]. Treasure Island (FL): StatPearls Publishing; 2018-.2018 Jul 15.Author information: (1)SUNY Downstate Medical Center(2)University of Maryland School of MedicineCurrent recommendations for treatment of local breast cancer recurrence includesurgery, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, radiation alone, or radiation withhyperthermia. Tumor-directed hyperthermia (also called thermal therapy) is whenthe body or cancer tissue is heated to high temperatures, ranging from 40 to 43C. When combined with radiation, hyperthermia plays a pivotal role in improvinglocal control for breast patients with breast or chest wall recurrences that are chemo-refractory, not surgically resectable, and have had prior radiation.Hyperthermia helps to enhance the effects of radiation-induced, DNA damage byblocking DNA repair in cancer cells and by increasing oxygenation of tumors,needed for RT-induced free radical production to damage cancer cells. Theconsiderable advantage of hyperthermia is the ability to combine it with lowerdoses of radiation therapy, leading to more effective outcomes with fewer sideeffects (Ahmed, 2013). Hyperthermia is a specialized treatment that is onlyoffered at select centers throughout the United States and around the world, soit is important for doctors to know more about this therapy so that they can helptheir patients get access. The purpose of this article is to review treatmentoptions for local breast cancer recurrences, with a special focus on the role of hyperthermia.  Hyperthermia Mechanisms of Action The applicability ofhyperthermia in cancer treatment stems from the cytotoxic effects of elevatedtemperatures on tumor cells. Studies have shown temperatures between 41 to 44 Cto be non-toxic to normal cells, but show toxicity in tumor cells (Ahmed, 2013). Several cellular alterations induced by extreme temperatures (Ahmed, 2013)include: 1. Increased cellular permeability increasing the influx of Ca2+, an ioninvolved in the apoptotic signaling cascade, and increasing cellular permeabilityto drug delivery. 2. Disassembly of the cytoskeleton, enlarged tumor pores,enabling easier drug delivery. 3. Alteration of the mitotic spindles, centrosome organization, and protein denaturation which results in the formation ofmultinucleated non-clonogenic cells. 4. Alterations of the integrin-cytoskeleton network with concomitant cell shape change, anoikis, and programmed cell death.5. Induction of DNA double-strand breaks due to the denaturation and dysfunction of heat-labile repair proteins such as DNA polymerases. 6. Precipitation ofdenatured proteins onto nuclear chromatin structures, generating a barrier which prevents repair enzymes from reaching damage sites. 7. Induction of apoptosisthrough generation of reactive oxygen species and increased expression of thepro-apoptotic BAX gene     Different Hyperthermia Modalities Energies used toheat tumors include microwaves (wavelengths ranging from 433 to 2450 MHz),radiofrequency (ranging from 100 KHz to 150 MHz), ultrasound, hot water perfusion(tubes, blankets), resistive wire implants, ferromagnetic seeds, nanoparticles,and infrared radiators. Hyperthermia is more commonly administered withelectromagnetic applicators since they appear to yield better power dispositionand temperature distribution (Peeken, 2017). The superficial applicators include a waveguide, spiral, and current sheet, and are positioned on tumor surfaces witha bolus.PMID: 30020666 