112. Drug Deliv Transl Res. 2018 Jul 19. doi: 10.1007/s13346-018-0563-z. [Epub aheadof print]Liposomal borrelidin for treatment of metastatic breast cancer.Jeong M(1), Kim H(1), Kim S(2)(3), Park JH(4)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Bio and Brain Engineering and KAIST Institute for Health Scienceand Technology, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.(2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Biopharmaceutical Sciences and ResearchInstitute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, Seoul NationalUniversity, Seoul, Republic of Korea.(3)Medicinal Bioconvergence Research Center, Seoul National University, Suwon,Republic of Korea.(4)Department of Bio and Brain Engineering and KAIST Institute for Health Scienceand Technology, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea. jihopark@kaist.ac.kr.(5)Medicinal Bioconvergence Research Center, Seoul National University, Suwon,Republic of Korea. jihopark@kaist.ac.kr.Borrelidin is an inhibitor of threonyl-tRNA synthetase with both anticancer andantiangiogenic activities. Although borrelidin could be a potent drug that cantreat metastatic cancer through synergistic therapeutic effects, its severe livertoxicity has limited the use for cancer therapeutics. In this study, we developeda liposomal formulation of borrelidin to treat metastatic breast cancereffectively through its combined anticancer and antiangiogenic effects whilereducing the potential liver toxicity. The liposomal formulation was optimized tomaximize loading stability and efficiency of lipophilic borrelidin in theliposomal membrane and its delivery efficiency to primary tumor in a mouse model of metastatic breast cancer. Liposomal borrelidin showed significant in vitrotherapeutic effects on proliferation and migration of tumor cells andangiogenesis of endothelial cells. Furthermore, liposomal borrelidin exhibitedsuperior inhibitory effects on primary tumor growth and lung metastasis in vivocompared to free borrelidin. More importantly, liposomal borrelidin did notinduce any significant systemic toxicity in the mouse model after multipleinjections.DOI: 10.1007/s13346-018-0563-z PMID: 30027371 