101. Metallomics. 2018 Jul 20. doi: 10.1039/c8mt00110c. [Epub ahead of print]Distributions of manganese in diverse human cancers provide insights into tumour radioresistance.Doble PA(1), Miklos GLG(2).Author information: (1)Elemental Bio-imaging Facility, University of Technology Sydney, Broadway, NewSouth Wales 2007, Australia. Philip.Doble@uts.edu.au.(2)Atomic Oncology Pty Ltd, Newport Beach, NSW 2106, Australia.george.miklos@atomiconcology.com.Many cancers are variably resistant to radiation treatment: some patients diewithin months, while others with the same tumour type and equivalent radiationprotocol, survive for years. To determine why some tumours are radiosensitive,while others return after radiotherapy, requires new non-traditional approachesto oncology. Herein we used laser ablation-inductively coupled plasma-massspectrometry (LA-ICP-MS) to test the hypothesis that Mn functions as a metabolic radioprotector and is an apex predictor of tumour radioresponsiveness. Thegenesis of this hypothesis lies in microbial and in vitro chemical systems. Wemeasured the levels and spatial distributions of Mn in tissue sections of 7specifically chosen tumour types with distinct clinically documentedradioresponsiveness and patient outcomes, namely testis, lung, brain, skin,mesothelium, prostate and breast. Mn levels varied nearly 60-fold betweenindividual tumours, from 0.02 μg g-1 to 1.15 μg g-1. The most radiosensitivecancer type, (testis), had the lowest Mn levels and the highest patient survival.Tumours at the radioresistant extreme (glioblastomas and melanomas) had thehighest Mn levels and lowest patient survival. A direct association was foundbetween total Mn contents and their variation, and clinically-inferredradioresponsiveness in each of these 7 tumour types, while no such associationexisted with Cu, Zn or Fe. The LA-ICP-MS data provided unique patient-specific 2Dmaps of the spatial metallomic heterogeneity of cancer cells and their stroma.These maps have fundamental and far reaching clinical implications. For the firsttime, Mn-based tumour data may allow for more precise radiodosages and improvedtreatment for the individual patient.DOI: 10.1039/c8mt00110c PMID: 30027971 