Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.185. Phys Med Biol. 2018 Aug 10;63(16):165003. doi: 10.1088/1361-6560/aad477.Singular value-guided similarity filter improves detection of vessels in low-dosedynamic CT angiography: application to DIEP flap studies.Pisana F(1), Haubenreisser H, Henzler T, Schönberg S, Kachelrieß M.Author information: (1)X-Ray Imaging and CT, German Cancer Research Center, Heidelberg, Germany.Dynamic CT angiography provides much more information compared to static 3D CTangiography, in several clinical applications. The prolonged exposure, on theother hand, results in higher radiation dose for to the patient. Care should betaken when designing noise reduction algorithms so that temporal profiles andspatial resolution is not significantly compromised. In particular, in deepinferior epigastric perforators (DIEP) flap studies, the temporal enhancement of small abdominal subcutaneous and intramuscular vessels needs to be evaluated fromthe surgeons to plan breast reconstruction. We propose a new approach to exploit the data redundancy in the temporal direction and successfully reduce noise viasingular value decomposition. The similarity of voxels temporal profiles is then measured on the noise-reduced dataset and a spatial smoothing is performed withan additional edge-preserving weight coming from the noise-reduced tMIP. We namedour filter the singular value decomposition guided similarity (SVGS) filter, and compared it to the TIPS (time-intensity profile similarity) filtered data and to the highly constrained filtered backprojection (HYPR) processed data. Thisinstitutional review board-approved study included 17 DIEP flap clinical cases,that were retrospectively processed with HYPR, TIPS and SVGS and then comparedboth qualitatively and quantitatively. Contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) was used forquantitative evaluation, while a blinded subjective evaluation was performed byan experienced radiologist. We reported significantly improved results with theSVGS filter when compared to the other approaches, both in terms of CNR, as well as with the subjective clinical evaluation. The results over 17 clinical casessuggest that a potential dose reduction of a factor of 9 could be achieved, whilepreserving the same image quality. In conclusion, we developed an efficientalgorithm for dynamic CT angiographic data processing, which successfully enablesa reduction of spatial and temporal noise, while preserving and enhancing thevisualization of small vessels. We demonstrated the clinical usefulness of theSVGS for the DIEP flap application. The proposed algorithm can be employed tosignificantly improve image quality and diagnostic acceptability at same doselevel or alternatively to reduce radiation dose, to which extent needs to beevaluated in future studies.DOI: 10.1088/1361-6560/aad477 PMID: 30022767 