96. Perm J. 2018 Jul 31;22. doi: 10.7812/TPP/17-132.Comparative Effectiveness of Surgical Options for Patients with Ductal Carcinoma In Situ: An Instrumental Variable Approach.Duan L(1), Kawatkar AA(2).Author information: (1)Biostatistician in the Department of Research and Evaluation for KaiserPermanente Southern California in Pasadena. lewei.duan@kp.org.(2)Research Scientist in the Department of Research and Evaluation for KaiserPermanente Southern California in Pasadena. aniket.a.kawatkar@kp.org.CONTEXT: Many patients with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) receive treatmentthat is too extensive.OBJECTIVE: To take a holistic approach in comparing the effectiveness in cancerprevention between mastectomy and breast-conserving surgery (BCS) for patientswith DCIS.DESIGN: Female Kaiser Permanente Southern California members who underwentsurgery for treatment of single primary DCIS from 2004 to 2014 were identified bythe Kaiser Permanente Southern California cancer registry and HealthConnectdatabase.METHOD: Two-stage residual inclusion with the surgeon's preference of surgicalprocedure type as the instrumental variable was used to examine the effect ofsurgical choice on DCIS recurrence, breast cancer progression, and other cancerprogression. Traditional Cox proportional hazards models were used forcomparison.RESULTS: Of qualified subjects, 72.2% underwent BCS and 27.8% underwentmastectomy. Patients were likelier to receive BCS if their surgeon preferred toperform BCS in the past 5 years (odds ratio = 1.02, 95% confidence interval =1.02-1.03). Although traditional Cox proportional hazards models suggested anassociation between BCS and higher risk of DCIS recurrence, no significant effectwas observed when we adjusted for endogeneity. Neither model showed significantdifferences between mastectomy and BCS in progression of any cancer.CONCLUSION: No significant benefit was observed with a more aggressive surgicalprocedure in preventing DCIS recurrence or cancer progression in a diversepopulation. Many patients with DCIS could benefit from BCS with preservation oftheir body image. Breast conservation followed-up with cancer surveillance is arational approach to ensure affordable, effective care for patients with DCIS.DOI: 10.7812/TPP/17-132 PMCID: PMC6054415PMID: 30028673 