Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The author has noconflicts of interest to declare.176. Front Oncol. 2018 Jul 4;8:244. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00244. eCollection 2018.Analysis of Hierarchical Organization in Gene Expression Networks RevealsUnderlying Principles of Collective Tumor Cell Dissemination and MetastaticAggressiveness of Inflammatory Breast Cancer.Tripathi S(1)(2), Jolly MK(2), Woodward WA(3)(4), Levine H(1)(2)(5)(6), DeemMW(1)(2)(5)(6).Author information: (1)PhD Program in Systems, Synthetic, and Physical Biology, Rice University,Houston, TX, United States.(2)Center for Theoretical Biological Physics, Rice University, Houston, TX,United States.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson CancerCenter, Houston, TX, United States.(4)MD Anderson Morgan Welch Inflammatory Breast Cancer Research Program andClinic, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, UnitedStates.(5)Department of Bioengineering, Rice University, Houston, TX, United States.(6)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rice University, Houston, TX, UnitedStates.Clusters of circulating tumor cells (CTCs), despite being rare, may account formore than 90% of metastases. Cells in these clusters do not undergo a completeepithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), but retain some epithelial traits as compared to individually disseminating tumor cells. Determinants of single celldissemination versus collective dissemination remain elusive. Inflammatory breastcancer (IBC), a highly aggressive breast cancer subtype that chiefly metastasizesvia CTC clusters, is a promising model for studying mechanisms of collectivetumor cell dissemination. Previous studies, motivated by a theory that suggestsphysical systems with hierarchical organization tend to be more adaptable, havefound that the expression of metastasis-associated genes is more hierarchicallyorganized in cases of successful metastases. Here, we used the copheneticcorrelation coefficient (CCC) to quantify the hierarchical organization in theexpression of two distinct gene sets, collective dissemination-associated genesand IBC-associated genes, in cancer cell lines and in tumor samples from breastcancer patients. Hypothesizing that a higher CCC for collectivedissemination-associated genes and for IBC-associated genes would be associatedwith retention of epithelial traits enabling collective dissemination and withworse disease progression in breast cancer patients, we evaluated the correlationof CCC with different phenotypic groups. The CCC of both the abovementioned gene sets, the collective dissemination-associated genes and the IBC-associated genes,was higher in (a) epithelial cell lines as compared to mesenchymal cell lines and(b) tumor samples from IBC patients as compared to samples from non-IBC breastcancer patients. A higher CCC of both gene sets was also correlated with a higherrate of metastatic relapse in breast cancer patients. In contrast, neither thelevels of CDH1 gene expression nor gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) of theabovementioned gene sets could provide similar insights. These results suggestthat retention of some epithelial traits in disseminating tumor cells as IBCprogresses promotes successful breast cancer metastasis. The CCC providesadditional information regarding the organizational complexity of gene expressionin comparison to GSEA. We have shown that the CCC may be a useful metric forinvestigating the collective dissemination phenotype and a prognostic factor for IBC.DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00244 PMCID: PMC6039554PMID: 30023340 