Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.118. Res Involv Engagem. 2018 Jul 16;4:22. doi: 10.1186/s40900-018-0108-0. eCollection2018.Patient advocate involvement in the design and conduct of breast cancer clinical trials requiring the collection of multiple biopsies.Batten LM(1), Bhattacharya IS(1), Moretti L(1), Haviland JS(1), Emson MA(1),Miller SE(1), Jefford M(2), MacKenzie M(3), Wilcox M(3), Hyslop M(1), Todd R(1), Snowdon CF(1), Bliss JM(1).Author information: (1)1Division of Clinical Studies, The Institute of Cancer Research ClinicalTrials and Statistics Unit, Sir Richard Doll Building, 15 Cotswold Road, Sutton, London, SM2 5NG UK.(2)2National Cancer Research Institute, Angel Building, 407, St John Street,Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 4AD UK.(3)Independent Cancer Patients Voice, 17 Woodbridge St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1R0LL UK.Plain English summary: Breast cancer is a diverse and varied disease. Recentresearch has shown that the collection of multiple biopsies before surgery canhelp researchers determine how the cancer is responding to treatment and canpredict for long-term outcomes. However biopsies can be uncomfortable, andsometimes clinicians and research teams in hospitals may be reluctant to offerclinical trials requiring several biopsies to patients who have been recentlydiagnosed with breast cancer. The Institute of Cancer Research Clinical Trialsand Statistics Unit (ICR-CTSU) oversees a large number of breast cancer clinical trials where multiple biopsies are required. ICR-CTSU recognises that patientadvocates (patients who have previously had, or cared for someone with, cancer)are key members of the trial design group and should be involved in the clinical trial throughout its lifespan. Patient advocates can provide reassuranceregarding the acceptability of trial designs involving multiple biopsies from apatient perspective. This paper summarises patient advocate involvement inICR-CTSU breast cancer trials activity and how this has benefited our research.Abstract: The importance of collecting tissue samples in breast cancer has becomeincreasingly recognised, as the diversity of the disease has become better known.It has been documented in recent research that tumours may change in response to treatment prior to surgery (the neoadjuvant treatment setting). The collection ofsequential biopsies over time can identify changes within tumours and potentiallypredict how the tumour may respond to certain treatments. However, theacceptability of multiple biopsies amongst patients, clinicians and otherresearch staff in hospitals is variable and recruitment into clinical trialsrequiring multiple biopsies may be challenging.The Institute of Cancer ResearchClinical Trials and Statistics Unit (ICR-CTSU) is responsible for a portfolio of breast cancer trials where multiple biopsies are key to the trial design. Patientadvocate involvement has been essential in helping us to design and delivercomplex and innovative cancer trials which require multiple invasive tissuebiopsies, often without any direct benefit to the trial participants. The viewsexpressed by patient advocates involved in ICR-CTSU trials supports the publishedevidence that patients are willing to donate additional tissue for research andthat clinicians' concerns about approaching patients for trials involvingmultiple biopsies are often unfounded.Patient advocate involvement in ICR-CTSUtrials activity takes various forms, from membership on protocol developmentgroups and trial management groups, attendance at focus groups and forums, andpresentations at trial development and launch meetings. This involvement hasprovided reassurance to research teams within the NHS and research ethicscommittees of the importance and acceptability of our trials from a patientperspective. Patient advocate involvement throughout the lifetime of our trialsensures that the patient remains central to our research considerations.DOI: 10.1186/s40900-018-0108-0 PMCID: PMC6047125PMID: 30026963 