117. Cureus. 2018 May 12;10(5):e2612. doi: 10.7759/cureus.2612.Factors Associated with Functional Decline in Elderly Female Breast CancerPatients in Appalachia.Singh R(1), Ansinelli H(2), Katz H(3), Jafri H(4), Gress T(4), Tirona MT(5).Author information: (1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, USA.(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Arizona College of Medicine,Tucson, USA.(3)Hematology/oncology, Marshall University, Joan C. Edwards School of Medicine.(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Marshall University, Joan C. Edwards Schoolof Medicine.(5)Director of Medical Oncology, Marshall University, Joan C. Edwards School ofMedicine.Background Functional status has been previously shown in the elderly cancerpopulation to predict both mortality as well as treatment tolerance. The goal of this study was to determine if there are certain subsets of the elderly breastcancer population that are at higher risk of experiencing functional declinefollowing treatment. Methods Patient charts from the Edwards Comprehensive CancerCenter in Huntington, West Virginia, from January 2006 - January 2016 werereviewed. Relevant inclusion criteria included patients of 65 years of age andolder with a new diagnosis of Stage 0-III breast cancer. Functional decline wasdefined as an increase of at least one point in Eastern Cooperative OncologyGroup (ECOG) scores within one year of diagnosis. ECOG performance status wassubjectively determined by the physician. Fisher's exact test and Pearson'sChi-squared test were initially utilized to assess potential factors associatedwith functional decline such as pretreatment ECOG score, age at diagnosis, stage,hormone receptor status, type of surgery received, whether radiation therapy,chemotherapy, or hormonal therapy was received, medical comorbidities, body mass index (BMI), complaints of weakness at diagnosis, and ambulatory status. Factors that were found to be significant were further assessed via multivariate logisticregressions. Results Three-hundred and fourteen patients were identified asmeeting inclusion criteria. At one-year follow-up, 45 patients (14.3% of thecohort) had documented functional decline. On initial analysis, factorsassociated with functional decline included Stage III disease (p=0.002) andcomplaints of weakness at diagnosis (p=0.004). Following multivariate analysis,Stage III disease (p = 0.02), complaints of weakness at diagnosis (p = 0.04), andbilateral mastectomy (p = 0.03) were significantly associated with functionaldecline. Conclusion Patients who were diagnosed with Stage III breast cancer, hadcomplaints of weakness at time of diagnosis, or had bilateral mastectomies weremore likely to have a decline in functional status at one-year follow-up.Awareness of factors associated with functional decline in the elderlyAppalachian population with Stage 0-III breast cancer will be useful duringdiscussions regarding patient expectations, treatment, and goals of care. Elderlybreast cancer patients for whom bilateral prophylactic mastectomies are notindicated may be better served by lumpectomy alone (based on patient age, hormonereceptor status, and tumor size), lumpectomy followed by radiation therapy, orunilateral mastectomy to maximize the likelihood of functional preservationfollowing treatment.DOI: 10.7759/cureus.2612 PMCID: PMC6044479PMID: 30027004 