192. Support Care Cancer. 2018 Jul 19. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4347-2. [Epub ahead of print]Perceptions of Dutch health care professionals on weight gain during chemotherapyin women with breast cancer.de Kruif JTCM(1), Scholtens MB(2), van der Rijt J(2), de Boer MR(2), van den BergMMGA(3), de Vries YC(3), Winkels RM(4), Visser M(2), Kampman E(3), WestermanMJ(2).Author information: (1)Department of Health Sciences, Faculty of Science, Vrije UniversiteitAmsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Anja.de.kruif@vu.nl.(2)Department of Health Sciences, Faculty of Science, Vrije UniversiteitAmsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.(3)Division of Human Nutrition, Wageningen University, Wageningen, theNetherlands.(4)Penn State Cancer Institute, Department of Public Health Sciences, Penn State University, Hershey, PA, USA.PURPOSE: Dutch Health care professionals (HCPs) provide little informationconcerning health risks associated with weight gain during chemotherapy forbreast cancer. Women with breast cancer have specified the need for moreinformation on nutrition and physical activity to deal with weight gain. The aimsof this study were to assess the perceptions of Dutch HCPs on weight gain during chemotherapy and in addition evaluate whether and what kind of information ondietary intake and physical activity HCPs provide to prevent/treat weight gainduring (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy.METHODS: A qualitative study was conducted using semi-structured interviews with 34 HCPs involved in breast cancer care: general practitioners, oncologists,specialized nurses, and dieticians.RESULTS: To date, little information about nutrition, physical activity, andweight gain is given during chemotherapy because it is not part of most HCPs'training, it is not included in the guidelines and it is not the best time tobring up information in the opinion of HCPs. Weight gain was perceived as just a matter of a few kilos and not an important health issue during treatment. AllHCPs felt it is better that women themselves addressed their weight gain afterchemotherapy.CONCLUSION: More knowledge about health risks associated withchemotherapy-induced weight gain and how to combat these issues needs to be made readily available to the HCPs and should become part of their training. Existing patient guidelines should include information on how to prevent and/or reduceweight gain through self-management of nutrition intake and physical activityduring and post chemotherapy.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4347-2 PMID: 30022349 