9. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Sep;105:1335-1343. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.105.Epub 2018 Jun 26.Hesperidin, piperine and bee venom synergistically potentiate the anticancereffect of tamoxifen against breast cancer cells.Khamis AAA(1), Ali EMM(2), El-Moneim MAA(3), Abd-Alhaseeb MM(4), El-Magd MA(5),Salim EI(6).Author information: (1)Biochemistry Division, Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, TantaUniversity, Tanta, Egypt.(2)Biochemistry Division, Chemistry Department, Faculty of Science, King AbdulAziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.(3)Biochemistry Department, Faculty of Dentistry, Sinai University, Al-Arish,North Sinai, Egypt. Electronic address: mohamed.elsafty@su.edu.eg.(4)Pharmacology and Toxicology Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, DamanhourUniversity, Damanhour, Egypt.(5)Anatomy Department, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Kafrelsheikh University,Kafrelsheikh, Egypt. Electronic address: mohamed.abouelmagd@vet.kfs.edu.eg.(6)Zoology Department, Faculty of Science, Tanta University, Tanta.Despite advances in cancer treatment, breast cancer remains one of the main life threatening diseases in women. Most anti-breast cancer drugs cause severe health complications and multidrug resistance. Although, some natural products, such as hesperidin (Hes), piperine (Pip) and bee venom (BV), showed anti-breast cancereffect when used separately, their combined effect together or with theanti-cancer drug tamoxifen (Tam) has not yet been studied. Herein, wehypothesized that these three natural products could potentiate the therapeuticeffect of Tam when used together. First, we studied the cytotoxic effect of Hes, Pip, and BV on MCF7 and T47D cells using MTT assay and found reasonable IC50comparable to that of Tam. Second, we checked the effect of all combinations(n = 67 for each cell line, prepared as non-constant ratio from fractions of IC50of the four compounds) and found enhanced anti-proliferative effects on MCF7 and T47D and synergistic effect, revealed by combination index (CI) values below one.Next, the best 5 combinations with lowest Tam doses and CI but with highest cell death were selected for further molecular analysis in comparison to single-drugtreatment. All single- and combined-treated groups showed a significant increase in apoptosis (indicated by upregulated mRNA level of the pro-apoptotic marker Baxand downregulated mRNA level of the anti-apoptotic marker Bcl2) and a significantdecrease in mRNA level of the two breast cancer related receptors EGFR and ERα,with the best effect in combined groups especially that contained the 4compounds, as compared to vehicle-treated group. Moreover, Pip, BV and allcombinations, except Tam + Hes group, arrested MCF7 and T47D in G2/M phase ofcell cycle, while Tam and/or Hes caused G0/G1 phase arrest. These resultsindicate that Hes, Pip and BV synergistically enhance the anti-cancer effect ofTam and could be used as safe adjuvant/vehicle to Tam in treatment of breastcancer after further confirmatory in vivo investigations.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.105 PMID: 30021371 