140. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2018 Jun 28. pii: S1748-6815(18)30227-4. doi:10.1016/j.bjps.2018.06.011. [Epub ahead of print]A comparison of patient satisfaction (using the BREAST-Q questionnaire) withbilateral breast reconstruction following risk-reducing or therapeuticmastectomy.Kazzazi F(1), Haggie R(1), Forouhi P(2), Kazzazi N(3), Wyld L(4), Malata CM(5).Author information: (1)University of Cambridge, School of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge,Cambridgeshire, UK.(2)Cambridge Breast Unit, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, UK.(3)Doncaster Royal Infirmary, Jasmine Breast Centre, Doncaster, South Yorkshire, UK.(4)Doncaster Royal Infirmary, Jasmine Breast Centre, Doncaster, South Yorkshire, UK; University of Sheffield, Sheffield, South Yorkshire, UK.(5)Cambridge Breast Unit, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, UK; Department of Plastic andReconstructive Surgery, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University HospitalsNHS Foundation Trust, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 2QQ, Cambridgeshire, UK; AngliaRuskin University School of Medicine, Chelmsford & Cambridge, Cambridgeshire, UK.Electronic address: charles.malata@addenbrookes.nhs.uk.INTRODUCTION: Patients undergoing mastectomy and immediate breast reconstruction for cancer may be expected to have different perceptions of long-term outcomescompared with those who have this operation prophylactically.METHODS: Patients who underwent bilateral mastectomy and breast reconstructionfrom 2008 to 2014 at the Cambridge Breast Unit were identified from a prospectiveregister and their notes were audited. They were classified according to theirindication for surgery as follows: bilaterally therapeutic, bilaterallyrisk-reducing or combination. The BREAST-Q™ questionnaire was posted toparticipants using the 'total Dillman method'. Q-SCORE software was utilised toanalyse patient satisfaction scores.RESULTS: Sixty-five (58%) responses were received, of which 8 were excluded,leaving 57 usable for the study. The therapeutic group had higher patientsatisfaction than the risk-reducing group across most domains including breast,outcome, psychosocial, sexual, physical and information. The combination groupscored lower and BRCA gene mutation-positive patients scored the lowest. Physicalwell-being was maintained across all groups but psychosocial/sexual well-beingvaried. Good psychosocial well-being was linked to a higher satisfaction with theoutcome in the combination and risk-reducing groups.CONCLUSION: This study highlights the need for clinicians to take into accountthe indication for surgery as a major psychological factor in patients'perception of self and experience of surgery. It demonstrates that bilateralimmediate reconstruction patients report similar physical symptoms irrespectiveof indication for mastectomy, but the decision-making process in terms ofrisk-balancing and diagnosis influences satisfaction with self and surgery. Itunderlines the importance of preoperative management of expectations for patientsundergoing risk-reducing procedures.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2018.06.011 PMID: 30025758 