Conflict of interest statement: All clinical trials mentioned by name in thispaper had full ethical review and approval, all patients that took part with the studies consented to do so. Further details: IMPACT was approved first by anational multicenter research ethical committee and subsequently by individuallocal research ethics committees; POETIC – South East Research Ethics Committee, 08/H1102/37; PALLET – London Fulham Research Ethics Committee, 14/LO/1291.Theauthors declare that they have no competing interests.Springer Nature remainsneutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.119. Theranostics. 2018 May 24;8(13):3437-3460. doi: 10.7150/thno.23853. eCollection2018.Image-guided surgery using near-infrared Turn-ON fluorescent nanoprobes forprecise detection of tumor margins.Blau R(1), Epshtein Y(1), Pisarevsky E(1), Tiram G(1), Israeli Dangoor S(1),Yeini E(1), Krivitsky A(1), Eldar-Boock A(1), Ben-Shushan D(1), Gibori H(1),Scomparin A(1), Green O(2), Ben-Nun Y(3), Merquiol E(3), Doron H(4), Blum G(3),Erez N(4), Grossman R(5), Ram Z(5), Shabat D(2), Satchi-Fainaro R(1).Author information: (1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, TelAviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.(2)Department of Organic Chemistry, School of Chemistry, Raymond and BeverlySackler Faculty of Exact Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel.(3)The Institute for Drug Research, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine,Campus Ein Kerem, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.(4)Department of Pathology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, TelAviv 69978, Israel.(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Israel.Complete tumor removal during surgery has a great impact on patient survival. To that end, the surgeon should detect the tumor, remove it and validate that there are no residual cancer cells left behind. Residual cells at the incision marginof the tissue removed during surgery are associated with tumor recurrence andpoor prognosis for the patient. In order to remove the tumor tissue completelywith minimal collateral damage to healthy tissue, there is a need for diagnostic tools that will differentiate between the tumor and its normal surroundings.Methods: We designed, synthesized and characterized three novel polymeric Turn-ONprobes that will be activated at the tumor site by cysteine cathepsins that arehighly expressed in multiple tumor types. Utilizing orthotopic breast cancer and melanoma models, which spontaneously metastasize to the brain, we studied thekinetics of our polymeric Turn-ON nano-probes. Results: To date, numerous lowmolecular weight cathepsin-sensitive substrates have been reported, however, mostof them suffer from rapid clearance and reduced signal shortly afteradministration. Here, we show an improved tumor-to-background ratio uponactivation of our Turn-ON probes by cathepsins. The signal obtained from thetumor was stable and delineated the tumor boundaries during the whole surgicalprocedure, enabling accurate resection. Conclusions: Our findings show that thecontrol groups of tumor-bearing mice, which underwent either standard surgeryunder white light only or under the fluorescence guidance of thecommercially-available imaging agents ProSense® 680 or 5-aminolevulinic acid(5-ALA), survived for less time and suffered from tumor recurrence earlier thanthe group that underwent image-guided surgery (IGS) using our Turn-ON probes. Our"smart" polymeric probes can potentially assist surgeons' decision in real-timeduring surgery regarding the tumor margins needed to be removed, leading toimproved patient outcome.DOI: 10.7150/thno.23853 PMCID: PMC6037036PMID: 30026858 