7. Biomed Pharmacother. 2018 Sep;105:870-878. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.015.Epub 2018 Jun 18.The effects of DMARDs on the expression and function of P-gp, MRPs, BCRP in thetreatment of autoimmune diseases.Wu YJ(1), Wang C(2), Wei W(3).Author information: (1)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China;Key Laboratory of Anti-Inflammatory and Immune Medicine, Ministry of Education,Hefei, China; Anhui Collaborative Innovation Centre of Anti-Inflammatory andImmune Medicine, Hefei, China.(2)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China;Key Laboratory of Anti-Inflammatory and Immune Medicine, Ministry of Education,Hefei, China; Anhui Collaborative Innovation Centre of Anti-Inflammatory andImmune Medicine, Hefei, China. Electronic address: wangchun@ahmu.edu.cn.(3)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China;Key Laboratory of Anti-Inflammatory and Immune Medicine, Ministry of Education,Hefei, China; Anhui Collaborative Innovation Centre of Anti-Inflammatory andImmune Medicine, Hefei, China. Electronic address: wwei@ahmu.edu.cn.The ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter family is a large class of ATPenergy-dependent transmembrane proteins, and its primary function is to use theenergy produced by ATP hydrolysis to transfer the substrate bound to the plasmamembrane. This family is also closely related to multidrug resistance (MDR) invarious diseases. Among the ABC transporter proteins, P-glycoprotein (P-gp),multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) and breast cancer resistanceprotein (BCRP) are the main members associated with MDR. At present, the roles ofthese transporters in therapeutic failures have been extensively studied andreviewed in cancer; however, they have rarely been described in autoimmunediseases (AIDs). AID is a group of chronic inflammatory diseases of unknownaetiology. AID's basic feature is the production of a large number ofautoantibodies, which leads to extensive damage to multiple systems and multiple organs. Disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are commonly used in the treatment of AID, but a considerable number of patients have no response ordevelop resistance to these drugs over time. This phenomenon may be related tothe abnormal expression of the ABC transporter, which leads to a decrease in the amount of drug entering cells that produce MDR. This article reviews the effects of DMARDs on the expression and function of P-gp, MRPs, and BCRP and the related molecular mechanism in the treatment of AID.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2018.06.015 PMID: 30021380 