164. Cancer Nurs. 2018 Jul 17. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000000626. [Epub ahead ofprint]Morning Fatigue Severity Profiles in Oncology Outpatients Receiving Chemotherapy.Wright F(1), Dunn LB, Paul SM, Conley YP, Levine JD, Hammer MJ, Cooper BA,Miaskowski C, Kober KM.Author information: (1)Author Affiliations: School of Nursing, Yale University (Dr Wright), NewHaven, Connecticut; School of Medicine, Stanford University (Dr Dunn), Palo Alto,California; School of Nursing, University of California (Drs Paul, Cooper,Miaskowski, and Kober), San Francisco; School of Nursing, University ofPittsburgh (Dr Conley), Pennsylvania; School of Medicine, University ofCalifornia (Dr Levine), San Francisco; and Mount Sinai Medical Center (DrHammer), New York, New York.BACKGROUND: Morning fatigue is a distinct symptom experienced during chemotherapythat demonstrates significant interindividual variability.OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study were to identify subgroups with distinctmorning fatigue profiles and evaluate how these subgroups differed bydemographic, clinical, and symptom characteristics.METHODS: Outpatients (N = 1332) with breast, gastrointestinal, gynecological, or lung cancer completed questionnaires 6 times over 2 cycles of chemotherapy.Morning fatigue was assessed with the Lee Fatigue Scale. Latent profile analysis was used to identify distinct morning fatigue profiles.RESULTS: Four morning fatigue profiles (ie, very low, low, high, and very high)were identified. In the high and very high classes, all 6 morning fatigue scores were higher than the clinical cutoff score. Compared with those in the very lowand low classes, patients in the very high class were younger and notmarried/partnered; lived alone; had higher incomes, higher comorbidity, andhigher body mass index; and did not exercise regularly. Across the 4 classes,functional status and attentional function scores decreased and anxiety,depression, sleep disturbance, morning fatigue, and evening fatigue scoresincreased across the 2 cycles.CONCLUSION: Results provide insights into modifiable risk factors for morningfatigue. These risk factors can be used to develop more targeted interventions.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Patients in the high and very high morning fatigueclasses experienced high symptom and comorbidity burdens and significantdecrements in functional status. Using this information, clinicians can identify patients who are at an increased risk for higher levels of morning fatigue andprescribe interventions to improve this devastating symptom.DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0000000000000626 PMID: 30024437 