79. BMJ Open. 2018 Jul 19;8(7):e020859. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-020859.Objective assessment of clinical, oncological and cosmetic outcomes followingvolume replacement in patients undergoing oncoplastic breast-conserving surgery: protocol for a systematic review.Hu J(1), Rainsbury RM(2), Segaran A(1), Predescu O(1), Roy PG(1).Author information: (1)Department of Breast Surgery, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, Oxford,UK.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust,Winchester, UK.INTRODUCTION: Oncoplastic breast surgery allows the excision of larger tumourswithout compromising cosmetic outcome and can be broadly divided into volumedisplacement and volume replacement techniques. Although oncoplastic surgery has rapidly gained acceptance and is now widely practised, evidence is still lacking especially in patients who underwent volume replacement techniques. As it is arelatively new technique that has been described in the literature in the recent years, a summary of evidence from this literature can help clinicians tounderstand the clinical, oncologicalandcosmetic outcomes of such procedures.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: All original studies including randomised controlledtrials, cohort studies, case-control studies and case series involving more than 10 women undergoing partial breast reconstruction using a volume replacementtechnique will be included. The primary objective is to evaluate the clinical,oncological and cosmetic outcomes following volume replacement in patientsundergoing oncoplastic breast-conserving surgery. The secondary objective is toreview the patient-reported outcomes (PROMs) associated with oncoplastic breastsurgery to help identify any unmet needs and to consider refining the existingPROMs to suit women undergoing volume replacement surgery.A comprehensiveliterature search, eligibility assessment and extraction of data will beconducted by two trained teams acting independently. Data will be extracted andstored in a database with standardised extraction fields to facilitate easy andconsistent data entry. Heterogeneity will be assessed using the Cochrane tests.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This systematic review requires no ethical approval. Itwill be published in a peer-reviewed journal, and it will also be presented atnationalandinternational conferences.PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42017075700; Pre-results.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2018. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. Nocommercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-020859 PMCID: PMC6059305PMID: 30030314 