54. Cancer Epidemiol. 2018 Jul 19;56:46-52. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.07.009. [Epubahead of print]InterPreT cancer survival: A dynamic web interactive prediction cancer survivaltool for health-care professionals and cancer epidemiologists.Mozumder SI(1), Dickman PW(2), Rutherford MJ(3), Lambert PC(4).Author information: (1)Biostatistics Research Group, Department of Health Sciences, University ofLeicester, UK. Electronic address: sarwar.islam@le.ac.uk.(2)Department of Medical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet,Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: paul.dickman@ki.se.(3)Biostatistics Research Group, Department of Health Sciences, University ofLeicester, UK. Electronic address: mjr40@le.ac.uk.(4)Biostatistics Research Group, Department of Health Sciences, University ofLeicester, UK; Department of Medical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, KarolinskaInstitutet, Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: pl4@le.ac.uk.BACKGROUND: There are a variety of ways for quantifying cancer survival with eachmeasure having advantages and disadvantages. Distinguishing these measures andhow they should be interpreted has led to confusion among scientists, the media, health care professionals and patients. This motivates the development of toolsto facilitate communication and interpretation of these statistics.METHODS: "InterPreT Cancer Survival" is a newly developed, publicly available,online interactive cancer survival tool targeted towards health-careprofessionals and epidemiologists (http://interpret.le.ac.uk). It focuses on the correct interpretation of commonly reported cancer survival measures facilitated through the use of dynamic interactive graphics. Statistics presented are basedon parameter estimates obtained from flexible parametric relative survival modelsusing large population-based English registry data containing information onsurvival across 6 cancer sites; Breast, Colon, Rectum, Stomach, Melanoma andLung.RESULTS: Through interactivity, the tool improves understanding of variousmeasures and how survival or mortality may vary by age and sex. Routine measures of cancer survival are reported, however, individualised estimates using crudeprobabilities are advocated, which is more appropriate for patients or healthcare professionals. The results are presented in various interactive formatsfacilitating understanding of individual risk and differences between variousmeasures.CONCLUSIONS: "InterPreT Cancer Survival" is presented as an educational toolwhich engages the user through interactive features to improve the understanding of commonly reported cancer survival statistics. The tool has received positivefeedback from a Cancer Research UK patient sounding board and there are furtherplans to incorporate more disease characteristics, e.g. stage.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2018.07.009 PMID: 30032027 