111. Hum Mutat. 2018 Jul 24. doi: 10.1002/humu.23597. [Epub ahead of print]Detection of novel germline mutations in six breast cancer predisposition genesby targeted next-generation sequencing.Dong L(1), Wu N(2), Wang S(3), Cheng Y(1), Han L(1), Zhao J(4), Long X(5), MuK(6), Li M(2), Wei L(2), Wang W(3), Zhang W(7), Cao Y(8), Liu J(2)(4), Yu J(1),Hao X(1).Author information: (1)Cancer Molecular Diagnostics Core, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Instituteand Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Key Laboratory ofCancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer ,Tianjin, China.(2)Cancer Prevention Center, Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute andHospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Key Laboratory of Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin's Clinical Research Center for Cancer, KeyLaboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin Medical University,Ministry of Education, Tianjin, China.(3)Tianjin Novcare Biotech., Ltd., Tianjin, China.(4)The Second Department of Breast Cancer, Tianjin Medical University CancerInstitute and Hospital, National Clinical Research Center for Cancer, KeyLaboratory of Cancer Prevention and Therapy, Tianjin's Clinical Research Centerfor Cancer, Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer Prevention and Therapy, TianjinMedical University, Ministry of Education, Tianjin, China.(5)Department of Oncology, Tengzhou Central People's Hospital, Tengzhou, P.R.China.(6)Department of Breast Surgery, Hebei Province Cangzhou Hospital of IntegratedTraditional and Western Medicine (Cangzhou No. 2 Hospital), Cangzhou, P. R.China.(7)Department of Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY.(8)Analyses Technology Co. Ltd., Beijing, China.In this study, a customized amplicon-based target sequencing panel was designedto enrich the whole exon regions of six genes associated with the risk of breast cancer. Targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) was performed for 146 breastcancer patients (BC), 71 healthy women with a family history of breast cancer(high risk), and 55 healthy women without a family history of cancer (control).Sixteen possible disease-causing mutations on four genes were identified in 20samples. The percentages of possible disease-causing mutation carriers in the BC group (8.9%) and in the high-risk group (8.5%) were higher than that in thecontrol group (1.8%). The BRCA1 possible disease-causing mutation group had ahigher prevalence in family history and triple-negative breast cancer, while the BRCA2 possible disease-causing mutation group was younger and more likely todevelop axillary lymph node metastasis (P < 0.05). Among the 146 patients, 47with a family history of breast cancer were also sequenced with another 14moderate-risk genes. Three additional possible disease-causing mutations werefound on PALB2, CHEK2, and PMS2 genes, respectively. The results demonstrate thatthe six-gene targeted NGS panel may provide an approach to assess the geneticrisk of breast cancer and predict the clinical prognosis of breast cancerpatients.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/humu.23597 PMID: 30039884 