144. Sci Rep. 2018 Jul 23;8(1):11067. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-29330-9.Mapping the genetic basis of breast microcalcifications and their role inmetastasis.Rizwan A(1), Paidi SK(2), Zheng C(2)(3), Cheng M(1), Barman I(4)(5), GlundeK(6)(7)(8).Author information: (1)The Johns Hopkins University In Vivo Cellular and Molecular Imaging Center,Division of Cancer Imaging Research, The Russell H. Morgan Department ofRadiology and Radiological Science, The Johns Hopkins University School ofMedicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,Maryland, USA.(3)Department of Breast Surgery, The Second Hospital of Shandong University,Jinan, China.(4)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,Maryland, USA. ibarman@jhu.edu.(5)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.ibarman@jhu.edu.(6)The Johns Hopkins University In Vivo Cellular and Molecular Imaging Center,Division of Cancer Imaging Research, The Russell H. Morgan Department ofRadiology and Radiological Science, The Johns Hopkins University School ofMedicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. kglunde@mri.jhu.edu.(7)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.kglunde@mri.jhu.edu.(8)The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, The Sidney KimmelComprehensive Cancer Center, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. kglunde@mri.jhu.edu.Breast cancer screening and early stage diagnosis is typically performed by X-raymammography, which detects microcalcifications. Despite being one of the mostreliable features of nonpalpable breast cancer, the processes by which thesemicrocalcifications form are understudied and largely unknown. In the currentwork, we have investigated the genetic drivers for the formation ofmicrocalcifications in breast cancer cell lines, and have investigated theirinvolvement in disease progression. We have shown that stable silencing of theOsteopontin (OPN) gene decreased the formation of hydroxyapatite in MDA-MB-231breast cancer cells in response to osteogenic cocktail. In addition, OPNsilencing reduced breast cancer cell migration. Furthermore, breast cancer cells that had spontaneously metastasized to the lungs in a mouse model of breastcancer had largely elevated OPN levels, while circulating tumor cells in the samemouse model contained intermediately increased OPN levels as compared to parentalcells. The observed dual roles of the OPN gene reveal the existence of a directrelationship between calcium deposition and the ability of breast cancer cells tometastasize to distant organs, mediated by common genetic factors.DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-29330-9 PMCID: PMC6056534PMID: 30038419 