183. Histopathology. 2018 Jul 23. doi: 10.1111/his.13718. [Epub ahead of print]Maspin mRNA expression in sentinel lymph nodes (SLNs) predicts non-SLN metastasisin breast cancer patients with SLN metastasis.Umekita Y(1), Ohi Y(2), Iwaya O(3), Souda M(3), Sagara Y(4), Tamada S(4),Yotsumoto D(4), Tanimoto A(3).Author information: (1)Division of Organ Pathology, Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine,Tottori University, Tottori, Japan.(2)Department of Pathology, Sagara Hospital, Social Medical CorporationHakuaikai, Kagoshima, Japan.(3)Department of Pathology, Field of Oncology, Kagoshima University GraduateSchool of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan.(4)Department of Breast Surgical Oncology, Sagara Hospital, Social MedicalCorporation Hakuaikai, Kagoshima, Japan.AIMS: Maspin is known to be a tumour suppressor protein, but its prognosticsignificance in breast cancer patients is controversial. There is no reportfocusing on maspin expression in metastatic carcinoma of sentinel lymph nodes(SLNs); we thus investigated maspin mRNA expression in SLNs using the remainingspecimens after the one-step nucleic acid amplification (OSNA) assay.METHODS AND RESULTS: Ninety-three breast cancer patients with SLNs metastasisdetected by the OSNA assay were enrolled. All patients experienced additionalaxillary lymph nodes (LNs) dissection and all dissected LNs were examinedhistopathologically. Maspin mRNA expression in SLNs was detected in 42.9% (46 of 93) and was significantly correlated with the presence of non-SLN metastasis (P <0.0001) and ≥4 LN metastases (P = 0.029). In a multivariate logistic analysis,maspin mRNA expression in SLNs (P = 0.0015) had the most significant effect onpredicting non-SLN metastasis, followed by pathological tumour size (P = 0.0039) and lymphovascular invasion (P = 0.009). The status of maspin mRNA expression in SLNs was significantly correlated with that of maspin protein expression in theprimary carcinoma (P < 0.0001) CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study demonstratingthat maspin mRNA expression in SLNs is an independent predictor of non-SLNmetastasis and the presence of ≥4 LN metastases in breast cancer patients withSLN metastasis. The investigation of maspin mRNA expression in SLNs using theremaining specimens after the OSNA assay may be useful for predicting the furtherprogression of metastatic carcinoma in breast cancer patients with SLNsmetastasis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1111/his.13718 PMID: 30035819 