Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare thatthey have no competing interests.135. Pol J Radiol. 2018 Feb 4;83:e63-e67. doi: 10.5114/pjr.2018.73307. eCollection2018.Imaging in a rare case of neuroendocrine tumour with skin metastases.Białecki M(1), Białecka A(2), Męcińska-Jundziłł K(2), Adamska U(2), KasperskaA(3), Czajkowski R(2).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology and Diagnostic Imaging, Nicolaus Copernicus Universityin Toruń, Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Bydgoszcz, Poland.(2)Chair of Dermatology, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Immunodermatology,Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz,Bydgoszcz, Poland.(3)Departament of Pathomorphology, Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń,Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Bydgoszcz, Poland.Purpose: Disseminated malignancies are a diagnostic and therapeutic challengethat is often encountered in radiology. Finding the primary tumour is crucial forplanning proper surgical and oncological treatment. Computed tomography (CT) ofthe thorax and abdomen is typically the initial examination. However, abdominalmagnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET/CT) orPET/MRI are often subsequently performed. Histopathological examination ofmetastatic tumours is performed as well, followed by immunohistochemistry. Theaim of the report was to present diagnostic workup in a rare case of skinmetastases.Case report: A 72-year-old patient was admitted to a dermatology ward because of skin lesions - violaceous nodules localised on the hair-covered skin of the head.On abdominal CT, a generalised neoplastic process with metastases in the liver,pancreas, adrenal glands, lymph nodes, bones, thoracic wall, and a suspectedmetastasis in the right breast was revealed. Histopathology of the skin nodulesconfirmed a neuroendocrine tumour. Metastases of a pancreatic neuroendocrinetumour or small-cell lung cancer were suspected on immunohistochemistry. Thepatient died before we were able to localise the primary source of the tumour andprovide treatment.Conclusions: Skin metastases are relatively rare, aggravate the prognosis, andusually indicate spread of the neoplastic process in the internal organs. It isnot always possible to localise the primary tumour using radiological imaging. Insuch cases, co-operation with the pathologist is crucial as are the results ofhistopathological and immunohistochemical examinations.DOI: 10.5114/pjr.2018.73307 PMCID: PMC6047099PMID: 30038680 