Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.143. Med Pr. 2018 Jul 23. pii: 80912. doi: 10.13075/mp.5893.00665. [Epub ahead ofprint][The prophylactic operational model integrated with occupational healthcare -Prophylactic of some types of cancers among women].[Article in Polish; Abstract available in Polish from the publisher]Wiszniewska M(1), Magnuska J(2), Lipińska-Ojrzanowska A(3), Pepłońska B(4), HankeW(5), Kalinka J(6), Skręt-Magierło J(7), Zadrożny M(8), Walusiak-Skorupa J(9).Author information: (1)Instytut Medycyny Pracy im. prof. J. Nofera / Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Łódź, Poland (Klinika Chorób Zawodowych i Zdrowia Środowiskowego /Department of Occupational Diseases and Environmental Health).marta.wiszniewska@imp.lodz.pl.(2)Instytut Medycyny Pracy im. prof. J. Nofera / Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Łódź, Poland (Klinika Chorób Zawodowych i Zdrowia Środowiskowego /Department of Occupational Diseases and Environmental Health).jadziama@imp.lodz.pl.(3)Instytut Medycyny Pracy im. prof. J. Nofera / Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Łódź, Poland (Klinika Chorób Zawodowych i Zdrowia Środowiskowego /Department of Occupational Diseases and Environmental Health).lipinska@imp.lodz.pl.(4)Instytut Medycyny Pracy im. prof. J. Nofera / Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Łódź, Poland (Zakład Epidemiologii Środowiskowej / Department ofEnvironmental Epidemiology). Beata.Peplonska@imp.lodz.pl.(5)Instytut Medycyny Pracy im. prof. J. Nofera / Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Łódź, Poland (Zakład Epidemiologii Środowiskowej / Department ofEnvironmental Epidemiology). Wojciech.Hanke@imp.lodz.pl.(6)Uniwersytet Medyczny w Łodzi / Medical University of Lodz, Łódź, Poland(Klinika Perinatologii, I Katedry Ginekologii i Położnictwa / Department ofPerinatology, 1st Chair of Obstetrics and Gynecology). j.kalinka@csk.am.lodz.pl.(7)Uniwersytet Rzeszowski/ University of Rzeszow, Rzeszów, Poland (KlinicznySzpital Wojewódzki nr 1 im. Fryderyka Chopina w Rzeszowie, Klinika Ginekologii i Położnictwa / Frederick Chopin Clinical Provincial Hospital No. 1 Rzeszow,Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinic). joannaskret@wp.pl.(8)Instytut Centrum Zdrowia Matki Polki / Institute of Polish Mother's MemorialHospital, Łódź, Poland (Klinika Chirurgii Onkologicznej i Chorób Piersi /Department of Oncological Surgery and Breast Diseases). zadrozny.lodz@wp.pl.(9)Instytut Medycyny Pracy im. prof. J. Nofera / Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Łódź, Poland (Klinika Chorób Zawodowych i Zdrowia Środowiskowego /Department of Occupational Diseases and Environmental Health).jolantaw@imp.lodz.pl.Periodical medical examinations are mandatory for employees in Poland. This rule makes a unique opportunity during occupational health services for implementationof prophylactic activities focused on early diagnosis of various diseases,including cancers. Epidemiological data about cancers is alarming and what ismore, further increase in development of cancers is being predicted in populationoverall. The highest incidence of cancers in the case of Polish women belongs to breast cancer (21.7% of diagnosed cancers in general), while the morbidity ratefor uterine cancer, ovarian cancer and cervical cancer amounts to 7.4%, 4.7% and 3.5%, respectively. The aim of this study was to elaborate an algorithm ofprophylactic activities integrated with the occupational healthcare system, basedon medical literature review and guidelines concerning prophylaxis of selectedcancers. Polish cancers' prophylaxis programs related to risk factors werepresented in this publication and practical indications for occupationalhealthcare physicians were worked out. Med Pr 2018;69(4).Publisher: W Polsce pracownicy podlegają obowiązkowym okresowym badaniomlekarskim. Stwarza to unikalną szansę wdrożenia działań nakierowanych na wczesne wykrywanie wielu schorzeń, w tym chorób nowotworowych, w system opiekiprofilaktycznej nad pracującymi. Dane epidemiologiczne dotyczące choróbnowotworowych są niepokojące – co więcej, prognozuje się dalszy wzrost zachorowańna nowotwory złośliwe w populacji generalnej. Najczęstszym nowotworem wśródpolskich kobiet jest rak piersi odpowiadający za 21,7% zachorowań, podczas gdynowotwory złośliwe trzonu macicy, jajnika i szyjki macicy stanowią, odpowiednio, 7,4%, 4,7% i 3,5% zachorowań. Celem niniejszej pracy było opracowanie algorytmudziałań profilaktycznych zintegrowanych z opieką profilaktyczną nad pracownikami,bazującego na przeglądzie piśmiennictwa medycznego oraz obowiązujących wytycznychdotyczących profilaktyki wybranych typów nowotworów. W publikacji przedstawionofunkcjonujące programy profilaktyczne chorób nowotworowych i ich czynniki ryzyka.Opracowano także praktyczne rozwiązania pozwalające na włączenie profesjonalistówzajmujących się ochroną zdrowia pracowników w profilaktykę niektórych typównowotworów występujących u kobiet. Med. Pr. 2018;69(4).This work is available in Open Access model and licensed under a CC BY-NC 3.0 PL license.DOI: 10.13075/mp.5893.00665 PMID: 30038434 