Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts ofinterest in this work.21. Proc SPIE Int Soc Opt Eng. 2017 Oct;10572. pii: 105720G. doi: 10.1117/12.2285971.Epub 2017 Nov 17.Brain cortical structural differences between non-central nervous system cancerpatients treated with and without chemotherapy compared to non-cancer controls: across-sectional pilot MRI study using clinically-indicated scans.Shiroishi MS(1)(2)(3), Gupta V(1), Bigjahan B(2), Cen SY(2), Rashid F(1), HwangDH(2), Lerner A(2), Boyko OB(2), Liu CJ(1), Law M(2), Thompson PM(1), JahanshadN(1).Author information: (1)Imaging Genetics Center, USC Mark and Mary Stevens Neuroimaging andInformatics Institute, Keck School of Medicine of USC, Marina del Rey, CA, USA.(2)Department of Radiology, Keck School of Medicine of USC, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(3)Southern California Clinical & Translational Science Institute, Los Angeles,CA, USA.Background: Cognitive deficit associated with cancer and its treatment is called cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI). Increases in cancer survival havemade understanding the basis of CRCI more important. CRCI neuroimaging studieshave traditionally used dedicated research brain MRIs in breast cancer survivors after chemotherapy with small sample sizes; little is known about othernon-central nervous system (CNS) cancers after chemotherapy as well as those not exposed to chemotherapy. However, there may be a wealth of unused data fromclinically-indicated MRIs that could be used to study CRCI.Objective: Evaluate brain cortical structural differences in those with variousnon-CNS cancers using clinically-indicated MRIs.Design: Cross-sectional.Patients: Adult non-CNS cancer and non-cancer control (C) patients who underwent clinically-indicated MRIs.Methods: Brain cortical surface area and thickness were measured using 3DT1-weighted images. An age-adjusted linear regression model was used and theBenjamini and Hochberg false discovery rate (FDR) corrected for multiplecomparisons. Group comparisons were: cancer cases with chemotherapy (Ch+), cancercases without chemotherapy (Ch-) and subgroup of lung cancer cases with andwithout chemotherapy vs C.Results: Sixty-four subjects were analyzed: 22 Ch+, 23 Ch- and 19 C patients.Subgroup analysis of 16 lung cancer (LCa) patients was also performed.Statistically significant decreases in either cortical surface area or thickness were found in multiple regions of interest (ROIs) primarily within the frontaland temporal lobes for all comparisons. Effect sizes were variable with thegreatest seen in the left middle temporal surface area ROI (Cohen's d -0.690) in the Ch- vs C group comparison.Limitations: Several limitations were apparent including a small sample size thatprecluded adjustment for other covariates.Conclusions: Our preliminary results suggest that, in addition to breast cancer, other types of non-CNS cancers treated with chemotherapy may result in brainstructural abnormalities. Similar findings also appear to occur in those notexposed to chemotherapy. These results also suggest that there is potentially awealth of untapped clinical MRIs that could be used for future CRCI studies.DOI: 10.1117/12.2285971 PMCID: PMC6049823 [Available on 2018-10-01]PMID: 30034079 