68. Cancer Med. 2018 Jul 20. doi: 10.1002/cam4.1687. [Epub ahead of print]Self-evaluation of duration of adjuvant chemotherapy side effects in breastcancer patients: A prospective study.Galizia D(1), Milani A(1), Geuna E(1), Martinello R(1), Cagnazzo C(2), ForestoM(3), Longo V(4), Berchialla P(5), Solinas G(6), Calori A(7), Grasso B(8),Volpone C(9), Bertola G(10), Parola G(11), Tealdi G(12), Giuliano PL(13), BallariAM(14), Aglietta M(14)(15), Montemurro F(1).Author information: (1)Investigational and Clinical Oncology (INCO), Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO,IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.(2)Clinical Research Office, Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Candiolo,Italy.(3)Multidisciplinary Day Hospital, Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCS, Candiolo,Italy.(4)AOU Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino - Presidio Sant' Anna, Turin,Italy.(5)University of Turin, Turin, Italy.(6)AOU Maggiore della Carità - Novara, Novara, Italy.(7)Ospedale Cardinal Massaia - Asti, Asti, Italy.(8)Azienda Sanitaria Locale ASL CN2-Alba-Bra, Alba, Italy.(9)Azienda Sanitaria Locale Verbano Cusio Ossola - Verbania, Verbania, Italy.(10)Ospedale Civile Ivrea, Ivrea, Italy.(11)Azienda ASO S. Croce e Carle - Cuneo, Cuneo, Italy.(12)AOU Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino - Presidio Molinette COES,Turin, Italy.(13)Azienda AOU San Luigi Gonzaga - Orbassano, Turin, Italy.(14)Medical Oncology, Candiolo Cancer Institute-FPO, IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.(15)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.BACKGROUND: We recently reported that self-evaluation of the incidence andseverity of treatment-related side effects (TSEs) using a National CancerInstitute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0-basedquestionnaire was feasible and more informative than doctor reports in patientsundergoing standard adjuvant chemotherapy for operable breast cancer. Here, wecompare self- and doctor-evaluated day of onset and duration of TSEs in the same population.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six hundred and four patients were enrolled at 11 sites in Italy. CTCAE v4.0 definitions of grade of severity of nausea, vomiting,constipation, anorexia, dysgeusia, diarrhea, fatigue, pain, paresthesia, anddyspnea were translated into Italian and rephrased. Questionnaires wereadministered after the first and third chemotherapy cycles. At each time-point,information on TSEs was extracted from the medical charts and compared to patientquestionnaires.RESULTS: A total of 594 and 573 paired patient and doctor questionnaires werecollected after cycles one and three, respectively. TSE duration wassignificantly longer when reported by patients compared to doctors for six andseven of ten items after cycles one and three, respectively. Due to the combined effect of doctor underreporting of TSE incidence and duration, the meanpercentages of cycle days with TSEs were significantly higher for all ten itemswhen based on patient reports. Day of onset could not be evaluated because ofinsufficient numbers of complete records.CONCLUSIONS: Self-reporting TSE duration is feasible using a CTCAE-derivedquestionnaire. As doctors tend to underestimate TSE incidence and duration,patient-reported outcomes should be incorporated into clinical practice, perhaps using eHealth technologies, to harness their potential to better estimate totalTSE burden.© 2018 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1687 PMID: 30030895 