56. Acta Biomater. 2018 Jul 20. pii: S1742-7061(18)30432-X. doi:10.1016/j.actbio.2018.07.038. [Epub ahead of print]Antimicrobial polymers as therapeutics for treatment of multidrug-resistantKlebsiella pneumoniae lung infection.Lou W(1), Venkataraman S(2), Zhong G(3), Ding B(1), Tan JPK(2), Xu L(1), FanW(4), Yang YY(5).Author information: (1)Program of Innovative Cancer Therapeutics, Division of Hepatobiliary andPancreatic Surgery, Department of Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310003, China; Key Laboratory of OrganTransplantation, Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou 310003, China; Key Laboratory ofCombined Multi-organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, Hangzhou 310000,China.(2)Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, The Nanos,Singapore 138669, Singapore.(3)Department of Thyroid and Breast Surgery, Zhejiang Provincial People'sHospital, People's Hospital of Hangzhou Medical College, Hangzhou, ZhejiangProvince, China.(4)Program of Innovative Cancer Therapeutics, Division of Hepatobiliary andPancreatic Surgery, Department of Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310003, China; Key Laboratory of OrganTransplantation, Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou 310003, China; Key Laboratory ofCombined Multi-organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health, Hangzhou 310000,China. Electronic address: fanw@zju.edu.cn.(5)Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, The Nanos,Singapore 138669, Singapore. Electronic address: yyyang@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.Klebsiella pneumoniae (K. pneumoniae) is one of the most common pathogens inhospital-acquired infections. It is often resistant to multiple antibiotics(including carbapenems), and can cause severe pneumonia. In search of effectiveantimicrobials, we recently developed polyionenes that were demonstrated to bepotent against a broad-spectrum of microbes in vitro. In this study, polyionenes containing rigid amide bonds were synthesized to treat multidrug-resistant (MDR) K. pneumoniae lung infection. The polyionene exhibited broad-spectrum activityagainst clinically-isolated MDR bacteria with low minimum inhibitoryconcentrations (MICs). It also demonstrated stronger antimicrobial activityagainst 20 clinical strains of K. pneumoniae and more rapid killing kinetics thanimipenem and other commonly used antibiotics. Multiple treatments with imipenemand gentamycin led to drug resistance in K. pneumoniae, while repeated use of thepolymer did not cause resistance development due to its membrane-disruptionantimicrobial mechanism. Additionally, the polymer showed potent anti-biofilmactivity. In a MDR K. pneumoniae lung infection mouse model, the polymerdemonstrated lower effective dose than imipenem with negligible systemictoxicity. The polymer treatment significantly alleviated lung injury, markedlyreduced K. pneumoniae counts in the blood and major organs, and decreasedmortality. Given its potent in vivo antimicrobial activity, negligible toxicityand ability of mitigating resistance development, the polyionene may be used totreat MDR K. pneumoniae lung infection.STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Klebsiellapneumoniae (K. pneumoniae) is one of the most common pathogens inhospital-acquired infections, is often resistant to multiple antibioticsincluding carbapenems and can cause severe pneumonia. In this study, we reportsynthesis of antimicrobial polymers (polyionenes) and their use as antimicrobial agents for treatment of K. pneumoniae-caused pneumonia. The polymers have broadspectrum antibacterial activity against clinically isolated MDR bacteria, andeliminate MDR K. pneumoniae more effectively and rapidly than clinically usedantibiotics. The polymer treatment also provides higher survival rate and faster bacterial removal from the major organs and the blood than the antibiotics.Repeated use of the polymer does not lead to resistance development. Moreimportantly, at the therapeutic dose, the polymer treatment does not cause acute toxicity. Given its in vivo efficacy and negligible toxicity, the polymer is apromising candidate for the treatment of MDR K. pneumoniae-caused pneumonia.Copyright © 2018 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2018.07.038 PMID: 30031912 