36. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2018 Aug;44(8):1142-1147. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.05.019. Epub2018 May 22.Inflammatory breast cancer and chest wall disease: The oncologist perspective.Curigliano G(1).Author information: (1)University of Milano, Department of Oncology and Hemato-Oncology, Division of Early Drug Development for Innovative Therapies, Istituto Europeo di Oncologia,Via Ripamonti 435, 20141 Milano, Italy. Electronic address:giuseppe.curigliano@ieo.it.Chest wall inflammatory and lymphangitic breast cancer represents a clinicalspectrum and a model disease. Inflammation and the immune response have a role inthe natural history of this special clinical presentation. Preclinical models andbiomarker studies suggest that inflammatory breast cancer comprises a moreimportant role for the tumour microenvironment, including immune cellinfiltration and vasculogenesis, especially lympho-angiogenesis. Across thisclinical continuum of the chest wall disease there is an important role of theinflammation cascade. The activation of mature dendritic cells (DCs) through tolllike receptors (TLRs) or by inflammatory cytokines converts immature DCs intomature DCs that present specific antigen to T cells, thereby activating them.Maturation of DCs is accompanied by co-stimulatory molecules and secretion ofinflammatory cytokines polarizing lymphocytic, macrophages and fibroblastinfiltration. It is unknown whether immune cells associated to the IBCmicroenvironment play a role in this scenario to transiently promote epithelialto mesenchymal transition (EMT) in these cells. Immune and microenvirnmentfactors can induce phenotypic, morphological, and functional changes in breastcancer cells. We can hypothesize that similar inflammatory conditions in vivo maysupport both the rapid metastasis and tight tumor emboli that are characteristic of chest wall disease and that targeted anti-inflammatory therapy may play a rolein this patient population. The current review will review biological andclinical data of this special condition.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd, BASO ~ The Association for Cancer Surgery, and theEuropean Society of Surgical Oncology. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.05.019 PMID: 30032791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]