Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: Theauthor(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to theresearch, authorship, and/or publication of this article.128. Front Oncol. 2018 Jul 9;8:256. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00256. eCollection 2018.Cellular Composition and Contribution of Tertiary Lymphoid Structures to TumorImmune Infiltration and Modulation by Radiation Therapy.Boivin G(1), Kalambaden P(1), Faget J(2), Rusakiewicz S(3), Montay-Gruel P(1),Meylan E(2), Bourhis J(1)(4), Lesec G(5), Vozenin MC(1)(4).Author information: (1)Radio-Oncology Laboratory, Department of Oncology, Lausanne UniversityHospital, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.(2)School of Life Sciences, Swiss Institute for Experimental Cancer Research,Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.(3)Center of Experimental Therapies (CTE), Department of Oncology, LausanneUniversity Hospital, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.(4)Radio-Oncology Service, Department of Oncology, Lausanne University Hospital, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.(5)Unilabs, Epalinges, Switzerland.Immune-based anti-cancer strategies combined with radiation therapy (RT) areactively being investigated but many questions remain, such as the idealtreatment scheme and whether a potent immune response can be generated bothlocally and systemically. In this context, tumor-associated tertiary lymphoidstructures (TLS) have become a subject of research. While TLS are present inseveral types of cancer with strong similarities, they are especially relevant inmedullary breast carcinoma (MBC). This suggests that MBC patients are ideallysuited for investigating this question and may benefit from adapted therapeuticoptions. As RT is a corner-stone of MBC treatment, investigating interactionsbetween RT and TLS composition is also clinically relevant. We thus firstcharacterized the lymphoid structures associated with MBC in a patient casereport and demonstrated that they closely resemble the TLS observed in agenetical mouse model. In this model, we quantitatively and qualitativelyinvestigated the cellular composition of the tumor-associated TLS. Finally, weinvestigated TLS regulation after hypo-fractionated RT and showed that RT inducedtheir acute and transient depletion, followed by a restoration phase. This study is the first work to bring a comprehensive and timely characterization oftumor-associated TLS in basal conditions and after RT. It highlights cellulartargets (i.e., Tregs) that could be selectively modulated in subsequent studiesto optimize anti-tumor immune response. The study of TLS modulation is worthfurther investigation in the context of RT and personalized medicine.DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00256 PMCID: PMC6046619PMID: 30038899 