61. Gac Sanit. 2018 Jul 18. pii: S0213-9111(18)30111-0. doi:10.1016/j.gaceta.2018.04.014. [Epub ahead of print][Social and clinical determinants of the use of health services in women withbreast cancer (Cohort DAMA)].[Article in Spanish]Puigpinós-Riera R(1), Castillo Gómez A(2), Romero Morales A(3), Aller M(3),Castells X(4), Sala M(4); grupo Cohort Dama.Author information: (1)Agència de Salut Pública de Barcelona, Barcelona, España; CIBER deEpidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), España; Institut de Recerca BiomèdicaSant Pau, Barcelona, España. Electronic address: rpuigpi@aspb.cat.(2)Servei d'Epidemiologia i Avaluació, Institut Hospital del Mar d'InvestigacióMèdica, Barcelona, España.(3)Servei d'Epidemiologia i Avaluació, Institut Hospital del Mar d'InvestigacióMèdica, Barcelona, España; Red de Investigación de Servicios de Salud (REDISSEC),España.(4)Servei d'Epidemiologia i Avaluació, Institut Hospital del Mar d'InvestigacióMèdica, Barcelona, España; Red de Investigación de Servicios de Salud (REDISSEC),España; Departament de Pediatria, Ginecologia i Obstetrícia i Medicina Preventivai Salut Pública, Facultat de Medicina, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona,Barcelona, España.OBJECTIVE: To describe and analyse the factors associated with the use of health services (emergency departments, admissions and primary care) in women survivors of breast cancer diagnosed or treated in four university hospitals of Barcelona(Spain) between 2003 and 2013, within the framework of the Cohort DAMA project.METHOD: Descriptive design nested in a mixed cohort (Cohort Dama). We obtainedsociodemographic information and information on the use of health servicesthrough a questionnaire, and on the tumour from the clinical history. Logisticregression models were performed, calculating the odds ratio of the use of healthservices (emergency departments, hospital admissions and primary care) raw andadjusted (aOR) by diagnostic method, the characteristics of the tumour and of thewomen and their 95% confidence intervals.RESULTS: The presence of chronic diseases was associated with greater use of the three levels of care. A disadvantaged economic level increases the risk of use ofemergency departments and primary care but not of hospital admissions, while ahigher tumour stage is associated with a greater risk of admission. By age, thoseunder 50 had a higher risk of using emergency departments and admissions.CONCLUSIONS: The factors associated with the use of health services differaccording to the level of care (aOR: 3.53 emergency departments, 1.67 admissions,3.89 primary care) and treatment-derived complications (aOR: 1.35 emergencydepartments, 1.43 primary care). The presence of chronic disorders, younger age, disadvantaged social class, increases the risk of using services more than thetumour stage and treatment-derived complications. Neither the diagnostic methodnor the survival time, nor the use of non-conventional therapies influence this.Copyright © 2018 SESPAS. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rightsreserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2018.04.014 PMID: 30031657 