159. Med Hypotheses. 2018 Sep;118:36-41. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.06.013. Epub 2018Jun 18.Bone resorption and bone metastasis risk.Mathis KM(1), Sturgeon KM(1), Winkels RM(1), Wiskemann J(1), De Souza MJ(1),Schmitz KH(2).Author information: (1)Pennsylvania State University, Public Health Sciences, 500 University Drive,Hershey, PA 17033, United States.(2)Pennsylvania State University, Public Health Sciences, 500 University Drive,Hershey, PA 17033, United States. Electronic address: kschmitz@phs.psu.edu.Breast cancer tumors have a tendency to metastasize to the bone. Afterdevelopment of a bone metastasis, the median survival time is 40 months.Currently, little is known about the modifiable risk factors for developing bone metastases in women diagnosed with breast cancer. One possible modifiable riskfactor is increased bone resorption. Increased bone resorption is caused by animbalance between osteoblasts and osteoclasts favoring osteoclast-driven boneresorption. Osteoclast activity results in the release of growth factors from thebony matrix that are requirement for successful breast cancer tumor cellproliferation within the bone. Mice studies have shown that mice that have beengenetically engineered to have higher bone mineral density, and thus lower boneresorption, have a decreased incidence of bone metastases. Alternatively, micegenetically engineered to have lower bone mineral density or increased boneresorption have a higher incidence of bone metastases. In human studies,antiosteoporotic drugs have been shown to decrease osteoclast activity andprevent bone metastases. These studies suggest that increased osteoclastactivity, which results in low bone mineral density, may be a modifiable riskfactor for developing bone metastases in women with breast cancer. Womenundergoing chemotherapy for breast cancer develop low bone mineral density inresponse to the direct effects of chemotherapeutic drugs on bone cells-including osteoclasts, osteoblasts, and osteocytes-and through the decrease in circulating estrogen as a result of chemotherapy-induced ovarian dysfunction. Therefore, itis important for future studies to determine the risk of developing bonemetastases associated with increasing bone resorption as measured by low ordecreasing bone mineral density in women diagnosed with breast cancer, as well asto determine the best intervention(s) to promote a balance between osteoclastsand osteoblasts to favor osteoblast activity during chemotherapy treatment.Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.06.013 PMID: 30037612 