115. Cell Prolif. 2018 Jul 24:e12488. doi: 10.1111/cpr.12488. [Epub ahead of print]Doxorubicin conjugated carbon dots as a drug delivery system for human breastcancer therapy.Kong T(1)(2)(3), Hao L(3), Wei Y(1)(2), Cai X(3), Zhu B(1)(2)(4).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Shaanxi Province for Craniofacial Precision MedicineResearch, College of Stomatology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.(2)Clinical Research Center of Shaanxi Province for Dental and MaxillofacialDiseases, College of Stomatology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, China.(3)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, West China Hospital of Stomatology,Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.(4)Department of Forensic Genetics, School of Forensic Medicine, Southern MedicalUniversity, Guangzhou, China.OBJECTIVES: Carbon dots (CDs) are one of the most promising carbon-basedmaterials in bioimaging and drug/gene delivery applications. In this study, wehave attempted to study the drug carrying capacity of highly fluorescent CDs for delivery of doxorubicin (DOX) and investigate the therapeutic activity of theCDs-DOX drug delivery system.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Carbon dots were synthesized by means of a hydrothermalapproach with mixing citric acid and ethylenediamine. The properties of CDs were characterized in respects of spectral property, zeta potential, particlemorphology and chemical composition. The drug loading efficiency (DLE) andrelease profile of CDs-DOX were determined by a fluorescence spectrophotometer.We investigated the cellular toxicity and pharmaceutical activity of CDs andCDs-DOX in L929 cells and MCF-7 cells by the CCK-8 assay. We also studied thecellular uptake of CDs-DOX with the methods of confocal microscopy and flowcytometry. In addition, the effect of CDs-DOX on cell apoptosis was assessed byflow cytometry.RESULTS: The obtained CDs possessed good biocompatibility and showed a potential capacity of promoting proliferation. DOX was successfully conjugated to CDsthrough electrostatic interaction, and the results of the DLE and loading content(DLC) suggested a relatively high drug loading capacity of CDs. Compared withfree DOX, the CDs-DOX complex had a higher cellular uptake and better anti-tumourefficacy on MCF-7 cells.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study indicated that the CDs-DOX drug deliverysystem had a potential value in cancer chemotherapeutic application.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.DOI: 10.1111/cpr.12488 PMID: 30039515 