65. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2018 Jul 18. pii: S0041-008X(18)30332-6. doi:10.1016/j.taap.2018.07.019. [Epub ahead of print]Zebrafish (Danio rerio) model as an early stage screening tool to study thebiodistribution and toxicity profile of doxorubicin-loaded mixed micelles.Calienni MN(1), Cagel M(2), Montanari J(1), Moretton MA(3), Prieto MJ(1),Chiappetta DA(3), Del Valle Alonso S(4).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Biomembranes - GBEyB (IMBICE, CCT-La Plata, CONICET),Departamento de Ciencia y Tecnología, National University of Quilmes, Bernal,Argentina.(2)Universidad de Buenos Aires, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Cátedra deTecnología Farmacéutica I., Buenos Aires, Argentina; Consejo Nacional deInvestigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Argentina; Laboratory ofBiomembranes - GBEyB (IMBICE, CCT-La Plata, CONICET), Departamento de Ciencia yTecnología, National University of Quilmes, Bernal, Argentina.(3)Universidad de Buenos Aires, Facultad de Farmacia y Bioquímica, Cátedra deTecnología Farmacéutica I., Buenos Aires, Argentina; Consejo Nacional deInvestigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Argentina.(4)Laboratory of Biomembranes - GBEyB (IMBICE, CCT-La Plata, CONICET),Departamento de Ciencia y Tecnología, National University of Quilmes, Bernal,Argentina. Electronic address: salonso@unq.edu.ar.Doxorubicin (DOX) hydrochloride is a powerful anthracycline antibiotic used forthe treatment of various types of malignancies, particularly ovarian andmetastatic breast cancer. However, DOX presents severe side effects, such ashepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, dose-limiting myelosuppression, brain damage and cardiotoxicity. A liposomal formulation, Doxil®, was approved by the FDA, whichhas managed to reduce the number of cardiac events in patients with metastaticbreast cancer. However, in comparison to free DOX, Doxil® has not shownsignificant improvements regarding survival. We have previously designedDOX-loaded mixed micelles (MMDOX) composed of D-α-tocopheryl polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (TPGS) and Tetronic® T1107. To assess the potential toxic effects of this novel formulation, in this work the zebrafish (Danio rerio) model wasused to evaluate its in vivo toxicity and teratogenicity. This study evaluatedand compared the effects of DOX exposure from different formulations (free DOX,MMDOX and Doxil®) on the swimming activity, morphological alterations, cardiacrhythm, lethality rate and DOX biodistribution. MMDOX showed lower lethaleffects, morphological alterations and neurotoxic effects than the free drug.This study shows the potential of the MMDOX to be an effective DOX-deliverysystem because it could reduce the side effects.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2018.07.019 PMID: 30031011 