13. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018 Jul 3;9:352. doi: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00352.eCollection 2018.Mechanically-Loaded Breast Cancer Cells Modify Osteocyte Mechanosensitivity bySecreting Factors That Increase Osteocyte Dendrite Formation and DownstreamResorption.Wang W(1), Sarazin BA(1)(2), Kornilowicz G(1), Lynch ME(1)(2).Author information: (1)Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, University ofMassachusetts, Amherst, MA, United States.(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO,United States.Advanced breast cancer predominantly metastasizes to the skeleton, at which pointpatient prognosis significantly declines concomitant with bone loss, pain, andheightened fracture risk. Given the skeleton's sensitivity to mechanical signals,increased mechanical loading is well-documented to increase bone mass, and italso inhibited bone metastatic tumor formation and progression in vivo, thoughthe underlying mechanisms remain under investigation. Here, we focus on the role of the osteocyte because it is the primary skeletal mechanosensor and in turndirects the remodeling balance between formation and resoprtion. In particular,osteocytic dendrites are important for mechanosensing, but how this function isaltered during bone metastatic breast cancer is unknown. To examine how breastcancer cells modulate dendrite formation and function, we exposed osteocytes(MLO-Y4) to medium conditioned by breast cancer cells (MDA-MB231) and to applied fluid flow (2 h per day for 3 days, shear stress 1.1 Pa). When loading wasapplied to MLOs, dendrite formation increased despite the presence oftumor-derived factors while overall MLO cell number was reduced. We then exposed MLOs to fluid flow as well as media conditioned by MDAs that had been similarlyloaded. When nonloaded MLOs were treated with conditioned media from loaded MDAs,their dendrite formation increased in a manner similar to that observed due toloading alone. When MLOs simultaneously underwent loading and treatment withloaded conditioned media, dendrite formation was greatest. To understandpotential molecular mechanisms, we then investigated expression of genes related to osteocyte maturation and dendrite formation (E11) and remodeling (RANKL, OPG) as well as osteocyte apoptosis. E11 expression increased with loading, consistentwith increased dendrite formation. Though loaded conditioned media decreased MLO cell number, apoptosis was not detected via TUNEL staining, suggesting aninhibition of growth instead. OPG expression was inhibited while RANKL expressionwas unaffected, leading to an overall increase in the RANKL/OPG ratio withconditioned media from loaded breast cancer cells. Taken together, our resultssuggest that skeletal mechanical loading stimulates breast cancer cells to alter osteocyte mechanosensing by increasing dendrite formation and downstreamresorption.DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2018.00352 PMCID: PMC6043807PMID: 30034365 