63. Hum Pathol. 2018 Jul 18. pii: S0046-8177(18)30269-7. doi:10.1016/j.humpath.2018.07.011. [Epub ahead of print]Metastatic breast Cancer simulating well-differentiated neuroendocrine neoplasms of visceral organs.Cloutier J(1), Thompson ED(2), Cimino-Mathews A(2), Rooper LM(2), Matoso A(2),Argani P(3).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA.(2)Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore,MD, USA; Department of Oncology, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions,Baltimore, MD, USA.(3)Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore,MD, USA; Department of Oncology, The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions,Baltimore, MD, USA. Electronic address: pargani@jhmi.edu.A series of metastatic breast carcinoma (MBC) mimicking visceralwell-differentiated neuroendocrine neoplasms has not previously been reported. Weidentified five consultation cases originally submitted as neuroendocrineneoplasms in females but which were found to be MBC on subsequent review. All 5neoplasms demonstrated nested architecture and relatively uniform nuclei. Fourpatients had a known history of breast cancer (remote in 3 and concurrent in 1), but the metastases (3 liver, 1 lung) labeled for chromogranin and/orsynaptophysin, prompting misdiagnosis as neuroendocrine neoplasm. In a fifthcase, a liver metastasis in a patient with a known pancreatic endocrine neoplasm was originally thought to be of pancreatic origin; an occult concurrent primarybreast cancer (PBC) was subsequently identified as the source. On furtherimmunohistochemistry (IHC, all metastases evaluated were diffusely, stronglypositive for estrogen receptor (ER) (5/5 cases) and GATA3 (4/4 cases). Threepatients had previously received ineffective treatment for neuroendocrinecarcinoma. Based upon the consultation diagnosis, all four patients withfollow-up received hormone therapy, which was effective in three. In a separatetissue microarray (TMA) cohort of paired PBCs and hematogenous MBCs, chromograninand/or synaptophysin IHC labeling was typically negative, and increased from the PBC to the MBC in only 5% of cases. In conclusion, while neuroendocrinedifferentiation is uncommon in breast cancer and does not commonly increase inmetastases, MBC with neuroendocrine differentiation should be considered inpatients with visceral neuroendocrine neoplasms of unknown primary site. Diffuse IHC labeling for ER and GATA3 helps establish the correct diagnosis.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2018.07.011 PMID: 30031098 