69. Epilepsia. 2018 Jul 21. doi: 10.1111/epi.14505. [Epub ahead of print]The expression of inflammatory markers and their potential influence on effluxtransporters in drug-resistant mesial temporal lobe epilepsy tissue.Weidner LD(1)(2), Kannan P(3), Mitsios N(2), Kang SJ(4), Hall MD(5), TheodoreWH(6), Innis RB(1), Mulder J(2).Author information: (1)Molecular Imaging Branch, National Institute of Mental Health, NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA.(2)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.(3)CRUK/MRC Oxford Institute for Radiation Oncology, University of Oxford,Oxford, UK.(4)Statistical Genomics and Data Analysis Core, National Institute of MentalHealth, NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA.(5)Chemical Genomics Center, National Center for Advancing TranslationalSciences, NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA.(6)Clinical Epilepsy Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders andStroke, NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA.OBJECTIVE: The role of neuroinflammation in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE),and how it relates to drug resistance, remains unclear. Expression levels of the inflammatory enzymes cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2 have been found to beincreased in animal models of epilepsy. Knowing the cellular expression of COX-1 and COX-2 is the key to understanding their functional role; however, only 3studies have investigated COX-2 expression in epilepsy in humans, and there areno reports on COX-1. In addition, previous studies have shown that certaininflammatory proteins up-regulate ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporterexpression (thought to be responsible for drug resistance), but this relationshipremains unclear in human tissue. This study sought to measure the expression ofCOX-1, COX-2, and translocator protein 18 kDa (TSPO, an inflammation biomarkeracting as a positive control), as well as ABC transporters P-glycoprotein (P-gp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), in brain tissue samples from people with drug-resistant MTLE.METHODS: Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded surgical brain tissue was obtained from33 patients with drug-resistant MTLE. Multiplex immunofluorescence was used toquantify the expression and distribution of COX-1, COX-2, TSPO, P-gp, and BCRP.RESULTS: COX-1 was expressed in microglia, and COX-2 and TSPO were expressed inmicroglia and neurons. BCRP density correlated significantly with TSPO density,suggesting a potential relationship between inflammatory markers and effluxtransporters.SIGNIFICANCE: To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to measurethe cellular expression of COX-1, COX-2, and TSPO in microglia, astrocytes, andneurons in surgical brain tissue samples from patients with drug-resistant MTLE. Further research is needed to determine the effects of the COX inflammatorypathway in epilepsy, and how it relates to the expression of the ABC transportersP-gp and BCRP.Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2018 International League Against Epilepsy.DOI: 10.1111/epi.14505 PMID: 30030837 