147. Nat Med. 2018 Jul 23. doi: 10.1038/s41591-018-0091-x. [Epub ahead of print]Enhancer mapping uncovers phenotypic heterogeneity and evolution in patients withluminal breast cancer.Patten DK(1), Corleone G(1), Győrffy B(2)(3), Perone Y(1), Slaven N(1), BarozziI(1), Erdős E(4), Saiakhova A(5), Goddard K(6), Vingiani A(7), Shousha S(8),Pongor LS(2), Hadjiminas DJ(8), Schiavon G(9), Barry P(10), Palmieri C(11),Coombes RC(1), Scacheri P(5), Pruneri G(12), Magnani L(13).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery and Cancer, The Imperial Centre for Translational andExperimental Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK.(2)MTA TTK Lendület Cancer Biomarker Research Group, Institute of Enzymology,Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest, Hungary.(3)Semmelweis University, 2nd Deptartment of Pediatrics, Budapest, Hungary.(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Genomic Medicine andBioinformatic Core Facility, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary.(5)Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences, Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH, USA.(6)Department of Breast and General Surgery, Charing Cross Hospital, ImperialCollege Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.(7)Department of Pathology, European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.(8)Centre for Pathology, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, London,UK.(9)IMED Biotech Unit, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK.(10)Department of Breast Surgery, The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, Sutton,UK.(11)Institute of Translational Medicine University of Liverpool, ClatterbridgeCancer Centre, NHS Foundation Trust, and Royal Liverpool University Hospital,Liverpool, Merseyside, UK.(12)Pathology Department, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori andUniversity of Milan, School of Medicine, Milan, Italy.(13)Department of Surgery and Cancer, The Imperial Centre for Translational andExperimental Medicine, Imperial College London, London, UK.l.magnani@imperial.ac.uk.The degree of intrinsic and interpatient phenotypic heterogeneity and its role intumor evolution is poorly understood. Phenotypic drifts can be transmitted viainheritable transcriptional programs. Cell-type specific transcription ismaintained through the activation of epigenetically defined regulatory regionsincluding promoters and enhancers. Here we have annotated the epigenome of 47primary and metastatic estrogen-receptor (ERα)-positive breast cancer clinicalspecimens and inferred phenotypic heterogeneity from the regulatory landscape,identifying key regulatory elements commonly shared across patients. Sharedregions contain a unique set of regulatory information including the motif fortranscription factor YY1. We identify YY1 as a critical determinant of ERαtranscriptional activity promoting tumor growth in most luminal patients. YY1also contributes to the expression of genes mediating resistance to endocrinetreatment. Finally, we used H3K27ac levels at active enhancer elements as asurrogate of intra-tumor phenotypic heterogeneity to track the expansion andcontraction of phenotypic subpopulations throughout breast cancer progression. Bytracking the clonality of SLC9A3R1-positive cells, a bona fide YY1-ERα-regulated gene, we show that endocrine therapies select for phenotypic clonesunder-represented at diagnosis. Collectively, our data show that epigeneticmechanisms significantly contribute to phenotypic heterogeneity and evolution in systemically treated breast cancer patients.DOI: 10.1038/s41591-018-0091-x PMID: 30038216 