198. Am J Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 1;8(6):1050-1063. eCollection 2018.Blocking LLT1 (CLEC2D, OCIL)-NKRP1A (CD161) interaction enhances natural killercell-mediated lysis of triple-negative breast cancer cells.Marrufo AM(1), Mathew SO(1), Chaudhary P(1), Malaer JD(1), Vishwanatha JK(1),Mathew PA(1).Author information: (1)Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Genetics, University of North TexasHealth Science Center Fort Worth 76107, TX, USA.Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most invasive form of breast cancerdue to an absence of estrogen (ER), progesterone (PR), and human epidermal growthfactor-2 (HER2) receptors on the cell surface. TNBC accounts for approximately 12to 20 percent of all breast cancer cases. The absence of ER, PR, and HER2receptors on TNBCs and its ability to develop drug resistance renders itdifficult to eradicate or retrogress tumor growth with hormonal therapy andchemotherapy. Triple-negative breast cancer is associated with poorer prognosis, increased chance of relapse, and lower chance of survival. Patients with TNBChave poorer outcome to conventional treatments than patients with other types of breast cancer. Natural killer cell-mediated immunotherapy is a promisingtherapeutic option for patients with TNBC. Natural killer cells contribute to theimmune system by recognizing tumor cells through interactions between ligands on tumor cells and natural killer cell receptors. NK cell function is regulated by anet balance of signals from activating and inhibitory receptors interacting with ligands on target cells. Lectin-like Transcript-1 (LLT1, CLEC2D, OCIL) is aligand that interacts with NK cell receptor NKRP1A (CD161) and inhibits NK cellactivation. In this study, we have identified expression of LLT1 on TNBC celllines MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-436 through flow cytometry, western blot, andconfocal microscopy. We have demonstrated that blocking LLT1 on TNBCs withantibodies disrupts interaction with NKRP1A and enhances lysis of TNBCs byprimary natural killer cells. We have also shown that a gene knockdown of LLT1decreases cell surface expression of LLT1 on TNBCs and increases NK cell-mediatedlysis of these TNBCs. The results suggest that LLT1 on TNBCs function as a methodof evasion from immunosurveillance by NK cells. Blocking LLT1-NKRP1A interaction activates lysis by NK cells and will potentially open a new immunotherapeuticstrategy for treatment of TNBC.PMCID: PMC6048397PMID: 30034942 