57. Steroids. 2018 Jul 20;138:108-116. doi: 10.1016/j.steroids.2018.07.006. [Epubahead of print]Estrogen matters in metastasis.Nair S(1), Sachdeva G(2).Author information: (1)Primate Biology Laboratory, Indian Council of Medical Research-NationalInstitute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR-NIRRH), Jehangir MerwanjiStreet, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India.(2)Primate Biology Laboratory, Indian Council of Medical Research-NationalInstitute for Research in Reproductive Health (ICMR-NIRRH), Jehangir MerwanjiStreet, Parel, Mumbai 400012, India. Electronic address: sachdevag@nirrh.res.in.Metastatic cancer cells meet several physical, biochemical and immunologicalbarriers before colonizing a new territory. Cancerous cells turn invasive, mobileand eventually disengage from their native niche. This is followed by theirintravasation, extravasation, survival, proliferation, and colonization intodistant organs. Unlike well-confined tumors, which respond favorably toanti-cancer therapeutics, metastatic tumors are life-threatening and incurable.More than 90% of cancer-related mortality is caused by metastases, hence theemphasis is now on developing the strategies to block or reverse the process ofmetastasis. This has ensued intensive research with a focus on the mechanismsunderlying metastasis. Substantial work carried out in this direction has led to the identification of specific enzymes, proteins, cytokines, chemokines, growthfactors, exosomes, miRNA and lipids, etc. as the facilitators of metastasis.Metastatic cells are exposed to a diverse array of local and systemic signals.Among these, estrogens are of great relevance. Estrogens have been stronglylinked to cancers, especially of breast and uterine origin. Recent data hint thatestrogens, well recognized for their role in proliferation, may have a role inmetastasis also. It is proposed that influence of estrogen on metastasis may beindependent of its proliferation-inducing ability. Data are emerging to suggestthat estrogens have potential to modulate various events of the metastaticcascade such as local invasion, intravasation, anoikis, immune evasion,extravasation, angiogenesis and metastatic colonization. This review summarizessome of the recent advances in our knowledge on the role of estrogens in themetastatic cascade of cancerous cells.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.steroids.2018.07.006 PMID: 30031855 