72. J Gen Intern Med. 2018 Jul 20. doi: 10.1007/s11606-018-4576-6. [Epub ahead ofprint]Key Elements of Mammography Shared Decision-Making: a Scoping Review of theLiterature.DuBenske LL(1), Schrager SB(2), Hitchcock ME(3), Kane AK(2), Little TA(2),McDowell HE(4), Burnside ES(2).Author information: (1)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison,Madison, WI, USA. dubenske@wisc.edu.(2)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison,Madison, WI, USA.(3)Ebling Library for the Health Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison,Madison, WI, USA.(4)Health Decision Support, Inc., Madison, WI, USA.BACKGROUND: New guidelines recommend shared decision-making (SDM) for women andtheir clinician in consideration of breast cancer screening, particularly forwomen ages 35-50 where guidelines for routine mammography are controversial. Anumber of models offer general guidelines for SDM across clinical practice, yetthey do not offer specific guidance about conducting SDM in mammography. Weconducted a scoping review of the literature to identify the key elements ofbreast cancer screening SDM and synthesize these key elements for utilization by primary care clinicians.METHODS: The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews; Cumulative Index to Nursingand Allied Health Literature (CINAHL Plus); PsycInfo, PubMed (MEDLINE), Scopus,and SocIndex databases were searched. Inclusion criteria were original studiesfrom peer-reviewed publications (from 2009 or later) reporting breast cancerscreening (mammography), medical decision-making, and patient-centered care.Study populations needed to include female patients 18+ years of age facing areal-life breast cancer screening decision. Article findings were specific toshared decision-making and/or use of a decision aid. Data extracted includesstudy design, population, setting, intervention, and critical findings related tobreast cancer screening SDM elements. Scoping analysis includes descriptiveanalysis of study features and content analysis to identify the SDM key elements.RESULTS: Twenty-four articles were retained. Three thematic categories of keyelements emerged from the extracted elements: information delivery/patienteducation (specific content and delivery modes), interpersonal clinician-patient communication (aspects of interpersonal relationship impacting SDM), andframework of the decision (sociocultural factors beyond direct SDM deliberation).A number of specific breast cancer screening SDM elements relevant to primarycare clinical practice are delineated.DISCUSSION: The findings underscore the importance of the relationship betweenthe patient and clinician and the necessity of spelling out each step in the SDM process. The clinician needs to be explicit in telling a woman that she has achoice about whether to get a mammogram and the benefits and harms of screeningmammography. Finally, clinicians need to be aware of sociocultural factors thatcan influence their relationships and their patients' decision-making processesand attempt to identify and address these factors.DOI: 10.1007/s11606-018-4576-6 PMID: 30030738 