Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare nopotential conflicts of interest.196. J Med Imaging (Bellingham). 2018 Jul;5(3):033501. doi: 10.1117/1.JMI.5.3.033501. Epub 2018 Jul 12.Reproducing two-dimensional mammograms with three-dimensional printed phantoms.Badal A(1), Clark M(2), Ghammraoui B(1).Author information: (1)U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Center for Devices and Radiological Health,Office of Science and Engineering Laboratories, Division of Imaging, Diagnostics and Software Reliability, Silver Spring, Maryland, United States.(2)University of Maryland College Park, Department of Mechanical Engineering,College Park, Maryland, United States.Mammography is currently the standard imaging modality used to screen women forbreast abnormalities, and, as a result, it is a tool of great importance for the early detection of breast cancer. Physical phantoms are commonly used assurrogates of breast tissue to evaluate some aspects of the performance ofmammography systems. However, most phantoms do not reproduce the anatomicheterogeneity of real breasts. New fabrication technologies, such asthree-dimensional (3-D) printing, have created the opportunity to build morecomplex, anatomically realistic breast phantoms that could potentially assist in the evaluation of mammography systems. The reproducibility and relative low cost of 3-D printed objects might also enable the development of collections ofrepresentative patient models that could be used to assess the effect ofanatomical variability on system performance, hence making bench testing studies a step closer to clinical trials. The primary objective of this work is topresent a simple, easily reproducible methodology to design and print 3-D objectsthat replicate the attenuation profile observed in real two-dimensionalmammograms. The secondary objective is to evaluate the capabilities andlimitations of the competing 3-D printing technologies and characterize the x-rayproperties of the different materials they use. Printable phantoms can be createdusing the open-source code introduced, which processes a raw mammography image toestimate the amount of x-ray attenuation at each pixel, and outputs a trianglemesh object that encodes the observed attenuation map. The conversion from theobserved pixel gray value to a column of printed material with equivalentattenuation requires certain assumptions and knowledge of multiple imaging systemparameters, such as x-ray energy spectrum, source-to-object distance, compressed breast thickness, and average breast material attenuation. To validate theproposed methodology, x-ray projections of printed phantoms were acquired with a clinical mammography system. The quality of the printing process was evaluated bycomparing the mammograms of the printed phantoms and the original mammograms usedto create the phantoms. The structural similarity index and the root-mean-square error were used as objective metrics to compare the two images. A detaileddescription of the software, a characterization of the printed materials usingx-ray spectroscopy, and an evaluation of the realism of the sample printedphantoms are presented.DOI: 10.1117/1.JMI.5.3.033501 PMCID: PMC6042055 [Available on 2019-07-12]PMID: 30035152 