17. Pain Physician. 2018 Jul;21(4):351-362.Thermal Versus Super Voltage Pulsed Radiofrequency of Stellate Ganglion inPost-Mastectomy Neuropathic Pain Syndrome: A Prospective Randomized Trial.Abbas DN(1), Reyad RM(1).Author information: (1)Department of Anesthesia and Pain Management, NCI, Cairo University, Cairo.Egypt.BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the second most common cancer world-wide followinglung cancer. Post-mastectomy pain syndrome (PMPS) is one of the chronicpost-surgical pain disorders (CPSP) of neuropathic character; nearly 20-50% ofpatients may develop PMPS. Stellate ganglion blockade has been performed as adiagnostic, prognostic, or therapeutic intervention for different pain syndromes.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to evaluate and compare the efficacy andsafety of thermal versus super voltage pulsed radiofrequency (RF) application of stellate ganglion in neuropathic PMPS in cancer patients.STUDY DESIGN: A prospective, double-blind, randomized, and controlled trial.METHODS: Eighty patients with PMPS after surgery for breast cancer were recruitedfrom the pain clinic of the National Cancer Institute with pain duration of more than 6 months and less than 2 years, visual analog scale (VAS) >/= 40 mm, and notresponding to oxycodone and pregabalin for at least 4 weeks. The pain had to beof positive neuropathic character, as detected by the grading system forneuropathic pain (GSNP; score of 3 or 4). The patients were allocated into 2equally sized groups: Group A: Pulsed RF; super voltage pulsed RF was appliedwith a time of 360 seconds at 42ยบ C, with a pulse width of 20 m/sec and voltageof 60-70 v. Group B: Thermal RF; thermal RF neurolysis was applied with a time of60 seconds at 80ยบ C, and was then was repeated twice after needle-tip rotation.Stellate ganglion RF therapy was done under fluoroscopy, integrated by ultrasoundguidance. The patients were assessed for pain relief by change in VAS score,functional improvement, and the analgesic concomitant medication (oxycodone andpregabalin) consumption prior to block and at 1, 4, 12, and 24 weeks thereafter. The impact of treatment on quality of life (assessed by short-form health survey questionnaire [SF-36]) and patient function capacity (assessed by the EasternCooperative Oncology Group [ECOG]) were also recorded.RESULTS: The percentage of patients who had successful response was significantlyhigher in the thermal RF group compared to the pulsed RF group at the first week and first, third, and sixth months, with significant difference inpost-mastectomy pain intensity, functional improvement, and less rescueanalgesia. There was no significant difference in quality of life or patientfunctional capacity.LIMITATIONS: A longer follow-up period may be needed for the evaluation of RFeffect on PMPS.CONCLUSIONS: Thermal RF of the stellate ganglion is a safe and successfultreatment for PMPS. It appears to be more effective than pulsed RF of thestellate ganglion in this pain syndrome.KEY WORDS: Cancer breast, post mastectomy pain syndrome, stellate ganglion block,radiofrequency therapy.PMID: 30045592 