33. Br J Radiol. 2018 Jul 25:20180287. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20180287. [Epub ahead ofprint]Model-based cardiac dose estimation in radiation treatment of left breast cancer.Ueda Y(1), Gerber NK(2), Das IJ(2).Author information: (1)1 Department of Radiation Oncology, Osaka International Cancer Institute ,Osaka , Japan.(2)2 Department of Radiation Oncology, New York University Health & Laura andIsaac Perlmutter Cancer Center , New York, NY , USA.OBJECTIVE: To develop a mathematical model for cardiac dose estimation forpatients who have been treated for left-sided breast cancer without CT data.METHODS: After obtaining institutional review board approvals, 147 patients with left-sided breast cancer were selected that were treated supine with opposedtangents. The heart blocks from the tangential fields were removed and dosecalculations were performed with 6 MV beams using an advanced algorithm. Thisstudy was performed with CT data with DRR to represent a radiographic simulatorimage of yesteryear treatments. The beam's eye-view images showing delineatedbreast, lung and heart were created to represent views on radiograph. The maximumheart distance (MHD) was recorded and irradiated heart area (AREA) was computedby combination of triangles and rectangles. Based on accurate 3D dosecalculation, mean dose (Dmean) and V10 to V50 of heart were analyzed with respectto MHD and AREA for dosimetric parameters using linear and quadratic fit.RESULTS: The treatment parameters calculated by MHD and segments using 2Dradiographs were within 2% of the actual dosimetric parameters computed from the 3D planning system. The MHD and AREA vs Dmean, V10, V20, V30 and V50 showed very good correlation with linear model (R2 > 0.91); however the correlation wassignificantly better with quadratic model (R2 > 0.92). The analysis of thedosimetric error with our linear and quadratic model is remarkable within <3%error for most cases.CONCLUSION: The proposed mathematical model for the cardiac dose estimation isaccurate within ±3% using a radiograph without CT data. This provides avenues forpatient pooling in future studies related to radiation dose and cardiac toxicity.These results will help in estimating cardiac dose analysis accurately fromprevious studies as well as in centers still using 2D planning. Advances inKnowledge: The evidence of cardiac risk following radiotherapy continues to beone of the important considerations for the management of left-sided breastcancer patients. One of the problem in the estimation of dose-risk effects is thereconstruction of heart dose for pre-CT treatments. In this study, a simplemathematical model is presented that could estimate cardiac dose within ±3% inleft breast cancer treatment from 2D radiograph where CT data do not exist.DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20180287 PMID: 30044144 