86. Pharmaceutics. 2018 Jul 23;10(3). pii: E102. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics10030102.Alterations in Expression and Function of ABC Family Transporters at Blood-Brain Barrier under Liver Failure and Their Clinical Significances.Fan Y(1), Liu X(2).Author information: (1)Center of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, China PharmaceuticalUniversity, Nanjing 210009, China. fanyilin0109@stu.cpu.edu.cn.(2)Center of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, China PharmaceuticalUniversity, Nanjing 210009, China. xdliu@cpu.edu.cn.Liver failure is often associated with hepatic encephalopathy, due todyshomeostasis of the central nervous system (CNS). Under physiologicalconditions, the CNS homeostasis is precisely regulated by the blood-brain barrier(BBB). The BBB consists of brain microvessel endothelial cells connected with ajunctional complex by the adherens junctions and tight junctions. Its mainfunction is to maintain brain homoeostasis via limiting the entry of drugs/toxinsto brain. The brain microvessel endothelial cells are characterized by minimalpinocytotic activity, absent fenestrations, and highly expressions of ATP-bindingcassette (ABC) family transporters (such as P-glycoprotein, breast cancerresistance protein and multidrug resistance-associated proteins). These ABCtransporters prevent brain from toxin accumulation by pumping toxins out ofbrain. Accumulating evidences demonstrates that liver failure diseases alteredthe expression and function of ABC transporters at The BBB, indicating that thealterations subsequently affect drugs' brain distribution and CNSactivity/neurotoxicity. ABC transporters also mediate the transport of endogenoussubstrates across the BBB, inferring that ABC transporters are also implicated insome physiological processes and the development of hepatic encephalopathy. This paper focuses on the alteration in the BBB permeability, the expression andfunction of ABC transporters at the BBB under liver failure status and theirclinical significances.DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics10030102 PMID: 30041501 