173. WMJ. 2018 Jun;117(2):68-72.A Strategy for Changing Adherence to National Guidelines for DecreasingLaboratory Testing for Early Breast Cancer Patients.Hill LA(1), Vang CA(2), Kennedy CR(1), Linebarger JH(3)(4), Dietrich LL(5),Parsons BM(5), Hennessy JL(4), Theede LM(4), VanderLei LK(6), Ramirez LD(2),Ernst AJ(2), Landercasper J(7).Author information: (1)Department of Medical Education, Gundersen Medical Foundation, La Crosse,Wisconsin.(2)Department of Medical Research, Gundersen Medical Foundation, La Crosse,Wisconsin.(3)Department of General Surgery, Gundersen Health System, La Crosse, Wisconsin.(4)Norma J. Vinger Center for Breast Care, Gundersen Health System, La Crosse,Wisconsin.(5)Department of Medical Oncology, Gundersen Health System, La Crosse, Wisconsin.(6)Department of General Surgery, Norma J. Vinger Center for Breast Care,Gundersen Health System, La Crosse, Wisconsin.(7)Department of Medical Research, Gundersen Medical Foundation; Norma J. Vinger Center for Breast Care, Gundersen Health System, La Crosse, Wisconsin,jlanderc@gundersenhealth.org.INTRODUCTION: Past studies indicate delays in adoption of consensus-basedguideline updates. In June 2016, the National Comprehensive Cancer Networkchanged its guidelines from routine testing to omission of ordering completeblood cell count (CBC) and liver function tests (LFT) in patients with earlybreast cancer. In response, we developed an implementation strategy todiscontinue our historical practice of routine ordering of these tests inasymptomatic patients.METHODS: The ordering of CBC and LFT for clinical stage I-IIIA breast cancerpatients was audited in 2016. In June 2016, we utilized the levers of theNational Quality Strategy implementation methodology to enact a system-widechange to omit routine ordering. To measure the plan's effectiveness, guidelinecompliance for ordering was tracked continually.RESULTS: Of 92 patients with early stage cancer in 2016, the overall rate ofcompliance with guidelines for ordering a CBC and LFT was 82% (88/107) and 87%(93/107), respectively. Segregated by the pre- and post-guideline change timeperiod, the compliance rates for ordering a CBC and LFT were 78% and 87% (P =0.076).CONCLUSION: In contrast to historical reports of delays in adoption of newevidence-based guideline changes, we were able to quickly change providerpractice during the transition from routine ordering to omission of orderingscreening blood tests in newly diagnosed patients with early breast cancer.Copyright© Wisconsin Medical Society.PMID: 30048575 