187. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 2018 Jul 25. doi: 10.1248/cpb.c18-00398. [Epub ahead of print]Design, Synthesis and Antiproliferative Activities of Oxidative Stress InducersBased on 2-styryl-3,5-dihydro-4H-imidazol-4-one Scaffold.Omar AM(1)(2), Abdelghany TM(3), Abdel-Bakky MS(3)(4), Alahdal AM(1), RadwanMF(1)(5), El-Araby ME(1)(6).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, King AbdulazizUniversity.(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-AzharUniversity.(3)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Azhar University.(4)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Aljouf University.(5)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia University.(6)Department of Pharmaceutical Organic Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, HelwanUniversity.The 2-styryl-3,5-dihydro-4H-imidazol-4-one might be considered as a system withisosteric properties similar to trans-Cinnamaldehyde (styrylaldehyde), a safenatural compounds that exhibited interesting activities against various cancers. We synthesized a series of compounds that differ structurally in having differentalkyl, aryl and heterocyclic substituents at the N3 position of the2-styryl-4-imidaolone pharmacophore. The compounds were assayed for theircytotoxicity against both cancer and normal cell lines. In addition, theircellular mechanism of action as ROS inducers were investigated. Many of thesynthesized compounds showed higher activities on colon, breast and hepaticcancer cell lines than the parent trans-cinnamaldehyde. Compounds 3a and 3eshowed selective antiproliferative activity against cancer cell lines at lowmicromolar to sub-micromolar IC50 value. Compounds were extremely less toxic onnormal cell lines BHK and WI-38. Similar to trans-Cinnamaldehyde, the coloncancer cell cycle analysis indicated cell cycle changes consistent with increasedoxidative stress leading to apoptosis. Compound 3e caused elevation of all celloxidative indicators of reactive oxygen species such as a decrease in reducedglutathione, increased malondialdehyde and suppression of catalase and superoxidedismutase activities. Dihydroethidium staining, nuclear fragmentation andincreased caspase-3 further confirmed extensive apoptotic induction due to ROSaccumulation upon treatment of HCT116 cells with compounds 3a and 3e. Changes in MCF7 cells were less revealing for ROS induction and increased oxidativestress.CONCLUSION: The compounds represent an example of efficient rescaffolding of a natural compound to a highly potent drug-like analogues.DOI: 10.1248/cpb.c18-00398 PMID: 30047515 