75. Am J Med Sci. 2018 May 1. pii: S0002-9629(18)30174-5. doi:10.1016/j.amjms.2018.04.015. [Epub ahead of print]BRCA2 Loss-of-Function and High Sensitivity to Cisplatin-Based Chemotherapy in a Patient With a Pleomorphic Soft Tissue Sarcoma: Effect of Genomic Medicine.Tlemsani C(1), Pasmant E(2), Boudou-Rouquette P(3), Bellesoeur A(3), Even J(4),Larousserie F(5), Reyes C(6), Gentien D(6), Alexandre J(3), Vidaud M(2), AnractP(4), Leroy K(7), Goldwasser F(3).Author information: (1)Molecular Genetic and Biology Department, Netsarc National Network, HôpitalCochin, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Paris, France; EA7331 Department,Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France; Medical Oncology Department, NetsarcNational Network, Hôpital Cochin, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre,Paris,France. Electronic address: camille.tlemsani@aphp.fr.(2)Molecular Genetic and Biology Department, Netsarc National Network, HôpitalCochin, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Paris, France; EA7331 Department,Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France.(3)Medical Oncology Department, Netsarc National Network, Hôpital Cochin,Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Paris,France.(4)Orthopedic Surgery Department, Netsarc National Network, Hôpital Cochin,Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Paris, France.(5)Pathology Department, Sarcoma Center, Netsarc National Network, HôpitalCochin, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Paris, France.(6)Translational Research Department, Institut Curie, PSL Research University,Genomics Platform, Paris, France.(7)Molecular Genetic and Biology Department, Netsarc National Network, HôpitalCochin, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris Centre, Paris, France.We report the case of a patient with a BRCA2 germline mutation who developed alocalized pleomorphic soft tissue sarcoma of the leg with poor prognosticfeatures. BRCA2 germline mutations were not previously reported to be associated with pleomorphic sarcoma. BRCA2 loss-of-heterozygosity was found in the tumor,resulting in a complete BRCA2 loss-of-function. BRCA2 deficiency is associatedwith sensitivity to cisplatin-based chemotherapy in breast and ovarian cancerpatients. We used a cisplatin-based chemotherapy. A rapid major partial response was obtained, which allowed a curative and conservative surgical resection of thesarcoma followed by adjuvant irradiation. This case illustrates that sarcomapatients may present unexpected but targetable genetic abnormalities and thatBRCA2 loss-of-function may be targetable in sarcoma as it is associated withenhanced sensitivity to cisplatin. Our observation emphasizes the input ofgenomic medicine in clinical practice, its importance for treatment decisions,and the overlap between constitutional and somatic genetics.Copyright © 2018 Southern Society for Clinical Investigation. Published byElsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.amjms.2018.04.015 PMID: 30041945 