96. Cancer Lett. 2018 Jul 21;434:184-195. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.07.026. [Epubahead of print]Reciprocal feedback regulation of ST3GAL1 and GFRA1 signaling in breast cancercells.Fan TC(1), Yeo HL(2), Hsu HM(3), Yu JC(4), Ho MY(1), Lin WD(5), Chang NC(1), YuJ(1), Yu AL(6).Author information: (1)Institute of Stem Cell and Translational Cancer Research, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, Taoyuan, Taiwan.(2)Institute of Stem Cell and Translational Cancer Research, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Chemical Biology and Molecular BiophysicsProgram, Taiwan International Graduate Program, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan; Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, National Tsing Hua University,Hsinchu, Taiwan.(3)Department of Surgery, Tri-Service General Hospital Songshan Branch, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan; Division of General Surgery, Departmentof Surgery, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense Medical Center,Taipei, Taiwan.(4)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, Tri-Service GeneralHospital, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.(5)Institute of Stem Cell and Translational Cancer Research, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Department of Biochemistry and MolecularBiology, Chang Gung University, Gueishan, Taoyuan, Taiwan.(6)Institute of Stem Cell and Translational Cancer Research, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital at Linkou, Taoyuan, Taiwan; Genomics Research Center, Academia Sinica,Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Pediatrics/Hematology Oncology, University ofCalifornia in San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA. Electronic address: a1yu@ucsd.edu.GFRA1 and RET are overexpressed in estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breastcancers. Binding of GDNF to GFRA1 triggers RET signaling leading to ERphosphorylation and estrogen-independent transcriptional activation ofER-dependent genes. Both GFRA1 and RET are membrane proteins which areN-glycosylated but no O-linked sialylation site on GFRA1 or RET has beenreported. We found GFRA1 to be a substrate of ST3GAL1-mediated O-linkedsialylation, which is crucial to GDNF-induced signaling in ER-positive breastcancer cells. Silencing ST3GAL1 in breast cancer cells reduced GDNF-inducedphosphorylation of RET, AKT and ERα, as well as GDNF-mediated cell proliferation.Moreover, GDNF induced transcription of ST3GAL1, revealing a positive feedbackloop regulating ST3GAL1 and GDNF/GFRA1/RET signaling in breast cancers. Finally, we demonstrated ST3GAL1 knockdown augments anti-cancer efficacy of inhibitors of RET and/or ER. Moreover, high expression of ST3GAL1 was associated with poorclinical outcome in patients with late stage breast cancer and high expression ofboth ST3GAL1 and GFRA1 adversely impacted outcome in those with high gradetumors.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2018.07.026 PMID: 30040982 