72. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2018 Jun 26. pii: S0748-7983(18)31132-6. doi:10.1016/j.ejso.2018.06.010. [Epub ahead of print]What a difference a clip makes! Analysis of boost volume definition in radiation therapy for conservative breast surgery.de Freitas TB(1), Lopes de Barros Lima KM(2), de Andrade Carvalho H(3), deAzevedo Marques P(4), Belfort Mattos FT(5), Franco Fonseca AS(6), Munhoz AM(7),Filassi JR(8), Stuart SR(9), Marta GN(10).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology and Oncology, Division of Radiation Oncology,Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Electronicaddress: vjbrasileir@gmail.com.(2)Department of Radiology and Oncology, Division of Radiation Oncology,Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Electronicaddress: kennyamedeirosl@gmail.com.(3)Department of Radiology and Oncology, Division of Radiation Oncology,Instituto de Radiologia (INRAD), Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de SãoPaulo, São Paulo, Brazil; Department of Radiation Oncology, HospitalSírio-Libanês, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address:heloisa.carvalho@hc.fm.usp.br.(4)Department of Plastic Surgery, Division of Breast Reconstruction, CancerInstitute of São Paulo, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, SãoPaulo, Brazil. Electronic address: marques.patricia307@gmail.com.(5)Department of Plastic Surgery, Division of Breast Reconstruction, CancerInstitute of São Paulo, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, SãoPaulo, Brazil. Electronic address: fabio.belfort@hotmail.com.(6)Department of Plastic Surgery, Division of Breast Reconstruction, CancerInstitute of São Paulo, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, SãoPaulo, Brazil. Electronic address: dr.alexandre@vivermelhor.com.br.(7)Department of Plastic Surgery, Division of Breast Reconstruction, CancerInstitute of São Paulo, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo, SãoPaulo, Brazil; Division of Plastic Surgery, Hospital Sírio-Libanês, São Paulo,Brazil. Electronic address: alexandremunhoz@hotmail.com.(8)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculdade de Medicina da Universidadede São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: ffilassi@terra.com.br.(9)Department of Radiology and Oncology, Division of Radiation Oncology,Instituto de Radiologia (INRAD), Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de SãoPaulo, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: silviastuart@me.com.(10)Department of Radiology and Oncology, Division of Radiation Oncology,Instituto do Câncer do Estado de São Paulo (ICESP), Faculdade de Medicina daUniversidade de São Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; Department of Radiation Oncology,Hospital Sírio-Libanês, Sao Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address:gustavo.marta@hc.fm.usp.br.PURPOSE/OBJECTIVE(S): To evaluate the role of surgical clips placement in thedefinition of boost treatment volume.MATERIALS/METHODS: Clinical Target Volumes (CTV) were defined as: CTV Breast, CTVQuadrant (based on physical exam and pre-surgical images), CTV Boost, defined by clip plus margin (1 cm for 2 or more clips and 2 cm for 1 clip only) plusradiological changes, CTV NT (normal tissue), defined by CTV Quadrant minus CTVBoost and CTV MISS (CTV that would be outside the treatment volume), defined byCTV Boost minus CTV Quadrant.RESULTS: A total of 247 patients were included. Upper lateral quadrant was themost common clinical location (47.3%). The median number of clips used was three.The mean volumes were: CTV Breast:982.52 cc, CTV Boost:36.59 cc, CTVQuadrant:285.07 cc, CTV NT:210.1 cc and CTV MISS:13.57 cc. Only 50.6% (125) ofthe patients presented the CTV Boost completely inside the CTV Quadrant and in47.3% (117), partially inside. Among patients with any CTV MISS, 80.3% (98) had10% or more of CTV Boost outside the treatment volume. Regarding CTV MISS, there were no statistically significant differences between the groups with 1 clipversus 2 or more clips, nor between patients with or without reconstructivesurgery. In average, the CTV Boost was 87% smaller than the CTV Quadrant. Thewhole quadrant irradiation would lead to unnecessary irradiation of 26% of normalbreast tissue.CONCLUSION: Surgical bed clipping is up most important in the definition of theboost volume irradiation to ensure precision minimizing geographical miss andoptimizing surrounding normal tissue sparing.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd, BASO ~ The Association for Cancer Surgery, and theEuropean Society of Surgical Oncology. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2018.06.010 PMID: 30041975 