185. Psychooncology. 2018 Jul 26. doi: 10.1002/pon.4842. [Epub ahead of print]A model of identity grounded in the acute season of survivorship.Thiessen M(1)(2), Hack TF(1)(3), Pitz M(3)(4), Anderson M(5)(6).Author information: (1)College of Nursing, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba,Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary,Calgary, Alberta, Canada.(3)Research Institute in Oncology and Hematology, CancerCare Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(4)Section of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine,Rady Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba,Canada.(5)Indigenous Academic Affairs Ongomiizwin Indigenous Institute of Health andHealing, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.(6)Department of Community Health Sciences, Rady Faculty of Health Sciences,University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.OBJECTIVE: Survivorship literature generally focuses on the cancer experienceafter diagnosis and treatment. However, acute survivorship, beginning withdiagnosis and ending at the completion of treatment, has a lasting impact on the well-being of patients. The purpose of this study was to generate a theoreticalunderstanding of how identity is affected during acute survivorship.METHODS: Using grounded theory and interviews with patients, their families, and their friends, the impact of the acute survivorship phase on the identity ofpatients was explored in Manitoba, Canada. Forty-two interviews were carried out,involving 18 patients with early malignancies and 15 friends and family members.RESULTS: The theory which evolved suggests that identity can be viewed as aconstruct of 3 concepts: values, social domains, and routine. Following diagnosisidentity is disrupted as patients face challenges integrating the health carerecipient social domain into their established routine. Patients indicated thatthe impact of the cancer diagnosis on their identities could have been minimized through earlier provision of the necessary information to re-establish routine.CONCLUSIONS: The theory that emerged from this study articulates the impact ofthe early cancer experience on the identity of patients. It also provides aframework for predicting which interventions may improve the cancer experience.Exploring how to best provide information that helps patients re-establish andmaintain their routines after diagnosis is an important future direction.© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4842 PMID: 30048034 