71. J Geriatr Oncol. 2018 Jul 21. pii: S1879-4068(18)30159-0. doi:10.1016/j.jgo.2018.06.014. [Epub ahead of print]Health status, emergency department visits, and oncologists' feedback: Ananalysis of secondary endpoints from a randomized phase II geriatric assessmenttrial.Sattar S(1), Alibhai SMH(2), Brennenstuhl S(3), Kulik M(3), MacDonald ME(3),McWatters K(3), Lee K(3), Jang R(4), Amir E(4), Krzyzanowska MK(4), Joshua AM(5),Monette J(6), Wan-Chow-Wah D(6), Puts MTE(3).Author information: (1)Lawrence S. Bloomberg Faculty of Nursing, University of Toronto, Toronto,Canada. Electronic address: martine.puts@utoronto.ca.(2)Department of Medicine, Institute of Health Policy, Management, andEvaluation, University Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.(3)Lawrence S. Bloomberg Faculty of Nursing, University of Toronto, Toronto,Canada.(4)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret CancerCentre, University Health Network, Toronto, Canada.(5)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret CancerCentre, University Health Network, Toronto, Canada; Department of Oncology,Kinghorn Cancer Centre, The Garvan Institute of Medical Research, University ofNewsouth Wales, Sydney, Australia.(6)Division of Geriatric Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.PURPOSE: Geriatric Assessment (GA) can help uncover previously unknown healthissues and recommend tailored interventions to optimize outcomes; however, nocompleted randomized trial has examined the impact of GA on utility-based health status, healthcare use, and oncologists' opinions about GA. We examined thesesecondary outcomes of a randomized phase II trial.METHODS: A planned analysis of secondary outcomes of a two-group parallelsingle-blind randomized phase II trial of GA (ClinicalTrials.govIdentifier:NCT02222259) recruited patients ≥ age 70, diagnosed with stage II-IVbreast/gastrointestinal/genitourinary cancer within six weeks of beginningchemotherapy at the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, Canada. Descriptiveanalyses using intent-to-treat were conducted for health status (EuroQolEQ-5D-3L) and healthcare utilization (patient self-report). Oncologist opinionswere captured via open-ended interviews and summarized.RESULTS: A total of 95 patients who met the inclusion criteria were approached;61 of them consented (64%). For health status, at all time-points, there were no significant differences between the two groups. The number of emergencydepartment and family physician visits was low overall; there were nostatistically significant differences between the two groups at any time point.All interviewed oncologists (eight of fourteen invited) were satisfied with theintervention, but wanted more straightforward recommendations and earlier GAresults.CONCLUSIONS: No difference was found in terms of relationships between GA andutility-based health status or GA and healthcare use. Underreporting ofhealthcare use was possible. Oncologists welcome GA feedback and prefer toreceive it in pre-treatment decision context. Larger trials with earlier GA arewarranted.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2018.06.014 PMID: 30041978 