35. Med Phys. 2018 Jul 25. doi: 10.1002/mp.13102. [Epub ahead of print]Evaluation of the 4D RADPOS Dosimetry System for Dose and Position QualityAssurance of CyberKnife.Marants R(1)(2), Vandervoort E(1)(3), Cygler JE(1)(3).Author information: (1)Department of Physics, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, K1S 5B6, Canada.(2)Department of Medical Biophysics, Western University, 1151 Richmond St,London, Ontario, N6A 3K7, Canada.(3)Department of Medical Physics, The Ottawa Hospital Cancer Centre, Ottawa,Ontario, K1H 8L6, Canada.PURPOSE: The Synchrony respiratory motion tracking of the CyberKnife systempurports to provide real-time tumor motion compensation during roboticradiosurgery. Such a complex delivery system requires thorough quality assurance.In this work, RADPOS applicability as a dose and position quality assurance tool for CyberKnife treatments is assessed quantitatively for different phantom types and breathing motions which increase in complexity to more closely resembleclinical situations.METHODS: Two radiotherapy treatment experiments were performed where dose andposition were measured with the RADPOS probe housed within a Solid Water phantom.For the first experiment, a Solid Water breast phantom was irradiated usingisocentric beam delivery while stationary or moving sinusoidally in theanterior/posterior direction. For the second experiment, a phantom consisting of a Solid Water tumour in lung equivalent material was irradiated using isocentric and non-isocentric beam delivery while either stationary or moving. The phantommovement was either sinusoidal or based on a real patient's breathing waveform.For each experiment, RADPOS dose measurements were compared to EBT3 GafChromicfilm dose measurements and the CyberKnife treatment planning system's (TPS) MonteCarlo and ray-tracing dose calculation algorithms. RADPOS position measurementswere compared to measurements made by the CyberKnife system and to the predicted breathing motion models used by the Synchrony respiratory motion compensation.RESULTS: For the static and dynamic (i.e., sinusoidal motion) cases of the breastexperiment, RADPOS, film and the TPS agreed at the 2.0% level within 1.1 σ ofestimated combined uncertainties. RADPOS position measurements were in goodagreement with LED and fiducial position measurements, where the average standarddeviation of the differences between any two of the three position datasets was≤0.5 mm for all directions. For the 10 mm peak to peak amplitude sinusoidalmotion of the breast experiment, the average Synchrony correlation errors were≤0.2 mm, indicative of an accurate predictive model. For all the cases of thelung experiment, RADPOS and film measurements agreed with each other at the 2.0% level within 1.5 σ of estimated experimental uncertainties provided that themeasurements were corrected for imaging dose. The measured dose for RADPOS andfilm were 4.0% and 3.4% higher, respectively, than the TPS for the most complexdynamic cases (i.e., irregular motion) considered for the lung experiment.Assessment of the Synchrony correlation models by RADPOS showed that modelaccuracy declined as motion complexity increased; the standard deviation of thedifferences between RADPOS and model position data measurements was ≤0.8 mm forsinusoidal motion but increased to ≤2.6 mm for irregular patient waveform motion.These results agreed with the Synchrony correlation errors reported by theCyberKnife system.CONCLUSIONS: RADPOS is an accurate and precise QA tool for dose and positionmeasurements for CyberKnife deliveries with respiratory motion compensation. Thisarticle is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/mp.13102 PMID: 30043980 