Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: ADA, JB, WHG, KK, TLS, NWand JMM report grants from AstraZeneca. ADA and JB report grants from Pfizer. ADAreports grants from Pfizer, Array Biopharmaceutical and the Canadian partnership against cancer. ADA, JB, MQB, WHG, HH, WSM, RP, TLS, SSY and JMM report personal fees from AstraZeneca. JB and HH report personal fees from Roche. ADA reportspersonal fees from Sanofi.68. RNA. 2018 Jul 24. pii: rna.066712.118. doi: 10.1261/rna.066712.118. [Epub aheadof print]Co-regulation of alternative splicing by hnRNPM and ESRP1 during EMT.Harvey SE(1), Xu Y(2), Lin X(1), Gao XD(2), Qiu Y(2), Ahn J(3), Xiao X(3), Cheng C(4).Author information: (1)Baylor College of Medicine.(2)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine.(3)University of California Los Angeles.(4)Baylor College of Medicine; chonghui.cheng@bcm.edu.The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a fundamental developmentalprocess that is abnormally activated in cancer metastasis. Dynamic changes inalternative splicing occur during EMT. ESRP1 and hnRNPM are splicing regulatorsthat promote an epithelial splicing program and a mesenchymal splicing program,respectively. The functional relationships between these splicing factors in the genome-scale remain elusive. Comparing alternative splicing targets of hnRNPM andESRP1 revealed that they co-regulate a set of cassette exon events, with themajority showing discordant splicing regulation. Discordant splicing eventsregulated by hnRNPM show a positive correlation with splicing during EMT, howeverconcordant events do not, indicating the role of hnRNPM in regulating alternativesplicing during EMT is more complex than previously understood. Motif enrichment analysis near hnRNPM-ESRP1 co-regulated exons identifies guanine-uridine richmotifs downstream of hnRNPM-repressed and ESRP1-enhanced exons, supporting ageneral model of competitive binding to these cis-elements to antagonizealternative splicing. The set of co-regulated exons are enriched in genesassociated with cell-migration and cytoskeletal reorganization, which arepathways associated with EMT. Splicing levels of co-regulated exons areassociated with breast cancer patient survival and correlate with gene setsinvolved in EMT and breast cancer subtyping. This study identifies complex modes of interaction between hnRNPM and ESRP1 in regulation of splicing indisease-relevant contexts.Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press for the RNA Society.DOI: 10.1261/rna.066712.118 PMID: 30042172 