Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The author declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research,authorship, and/or publication of this article.11. JCI Insight. 2018 Jul 25;3(14). pii: 120594. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.120594.[Epub ahead of print]FGFR1 underlies obesity-associated progression of estrogen receptor-positivebreast cancer after estrogen deprivation.Wellberg EA(1), Kabos P(2), Gillen AE(3), Jacobsen BM(1)(4), Brechbuhl HM(2),Johnson SJ(1), Rudolph MC(4), Edgerton SM(1), Thor AD(1), Anderson SM(1), EliasA(2), Zhou XK(5), Iyengar NM(6)(7), Morrow M(8), Falcone DJ(9), El-Hely O(7),Dannenberg AJ(7), Sartorius CA(1), MacLean PS(4).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology and.(2)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of ColoradoDenver, Aurora, Colorado, USA.(3)University of Colorado School of Medicine, RNA Bioscience Initiative, Aurora, Colorado, USA.(4)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, & Diabetes, Department of Medicine,University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, Colorado, USA.(5)Department of Healthcare Policy and Research, Weill Cornell Medical College,New York, New York, USA.(6)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), NewYork, New York, USA.(7)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, New York,USA.(8)Department of Surgery, MSKCC, New York, New York, USA.(9)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical Center,New York, New York, USA.Obesity increases breast cancer mortality by promoting resistance to therapy.Here, we identified regulatory pathways in estrogen receptor-positive(ER-positive) tumors that were shared between patients with obesity and thosewith resistance to neoadjuvant aromatase inhibition. Among these was fibroblastgrowth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1), a known mediator of endocrine therapyresistance. In a preclinical model with patient-derived ER-positive tumors,diet-induced obesity promoted a similar gene expression signature and sustainedthe growth of FGFR1-overexpressing tumors after estrogen deprivation. Tumor FGFR1phosphorylation was elevated with obesity and predicted a shorter disease-freeand disease-specific survival for patients treated with tamoxifen. In both human and mouse mammary adipose tissue, FGF1 ligand expression was associated withmetabolic dysfunction, weight gain, and adipocyte hypertrophy, implicating theimpaired response to a positive energy balance in growth factor production withinthe tumor niche. In conjunction with these studies, we describe a potentiallynovel graft-competent model that can be used with patient-derived tissue toelucidate factors specific to extrinsic (host) and intrinsic (tumor) tissue that are critical for obesity-associated tumor promotion. Taken together, wedemonstrate that obesity and excess energy establish a tumor environment withfeatures of endocrine therapy resistance and identify a role for ligand-dependentFGFR1 signaling in obesity-associated breast cancer progression.DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.120594 PMID: 30046001 