166. Rehabilitation (Stuttg). 2018 Jul 26. doi: 10.1055/a-0642-1411. [Epub ahead ofprint][Reasons for the Non-Utilisation of an Oncological Rehabilitation. Results of aWritten Survey with Patients of Oncological Healthcare Centers].[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]Deck R(1), Babaev V(2), Katalinic A(1)(2).Author information: (1)Institut für Sozialmedizin und Epidemiologie, Universität zu Lübeck.(2)Institut für Krebsepidemiologie, Universität zu Lübeck.BACKGROUND: Incidence and survival rates in patients with cancer are rising aswell as the potential rehabilitation needs. In contrast, the numbers ofrehabilitation treatments after cancer are decreasing. The reasons are not yetcompletely understood.METHODS: A written survey with patients of three cancer indications breastcancer, prostate cancer and colon cancer after acute medical treatment. 376persons participated and were asked for rehabilitation utilisation, reasonsagainst medical rehabilitation and subjective health status. Statistical analyseswere mainly performed descriptively.RESULTS: Half of the participants used a medical rehabilitation. Those patientswere more affected in subjective health and showed a higher level of diseaseseverity. Participants who refused the utilisation of a medical rehabilitationmentioned primarily family, personal and private reasons.CONCLUSION: The written survey provided a variety of reasons why a medicalrehabilitation is not used after cancer disease. From this data, suggestions for the optimization of rehabilitation and organizational arrangements can bederived.Publisher: Inzidenz und Überlebensraten onkologischer Erkrankungen steigen unddamit auch der potentielle Reha-Bedarf bei den Betroffenen. Invers zu denKrebserkrankungen gehen die Leistungen zur medizinischen Rehabilitation nacheiner onkologischen Erkrankung zurück. Die Gründe für diesen Rückgang sindbislang nicht vollständig geklärt.Schriftliche Befragung von Krebspatienten derIndikationen Brust-, Darm- und Prostatakrebs nach Akutbehandlung. Es beteiligten sich 376 Personen; erfasst wurden Inanspruchnahme einer Rehabilitation, dieGründe für die Nichtinanspruchnahme einer Rehabilitation sowiegesundheitsbezogene Merkmale. Die Auswertungen erfolgten überwiegenddeskriptiv.Die Hälfte der Befragten hat eine medizinische Rehabilitation inAnspruch genommen. Patienten, die sich für eine Rehabilitation entscheiden,fühlen sich gesundheitlich stärker belastet und weisen einen höheren Schwergradder Erkrankung auf. Als Gründe für die Nichtinanspruchnahme einer Rehabilitation werden familiäre, persönliche und private Motive genannt.Die schriftlicheBefragung lieferte eine Vielzahl von Gründen, warum eine medizinischeRehabilitation nach einer Krebserkrankung nicht in Anspruch genommen wird. Darauslassen sich Vorschläge zur Optimierung der Rehabilitation und ihrer Ausgestaltungableiten.© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.DOI: 10.1055/a-0642-1411 PMID: 30048998 