168. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2018 Jul 23. pii: S1572-1000(18)30027-9. doi:10.1016/j.pdpdt.2018.07.011. [Epub ahead of print]Pegylated Hollow Gold-Mitoxantrone Nanoparticles Combining Photodynamic Therapyand Chemotherapy of Cancer Cells.Imanparast A(1), Bakhshizadeh M(2), Salek R(3), Sazgarnia A(4).Author information: (1)Medical Physics Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,Mashhad, Iran; Department of Medical Physics, Faculty of Medicine, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(2)Torbat Heydariyeh University of Medical Sciences, Torbat Heydariyeh, Iran.(3)Department of Radiotherapy and Oncology, Cancer Research Center, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(4)Medical Physics Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,Mashhad, Iran; Department of Medical Physics, Faculty of Medicine, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address:sazgarniaa@mums.ac.ir.BACKGROUND: In recent years, Mitoxantrone (MTX) has been introduced as achemotherapy drug which also serves as a photosensitizer and radiosensitizer. Dueto its serious side effects, there are limitations to the application of MTX soscientists are looking for solutions to overcome this problem. Hollow goldnanoparticles (HAuNP) have attracted growing attention due to their uniquephysical-chemical properties, such as biocompatibility, tunable plasmonicabsorption peak ranging from visible to near infrared, high stability and variousmedical applications in imaging, drug delivery and combinational cancertreatments. In this paper, the combinational effect of photodynamic therapy (PDT)and chemotherapy of MTX conjugated to HAuNP is studied.METHOD: After optimizing the synthesis of PEGylated HAuNP and preparingnanostructures conjugated with MTX, the characteristics of pharmacological agentsincluding MTX, HAuNP, mPEG-HAuNP,and MTX-mPEG-HAuNP and their toxicity weredetermined at different concentrations on two cell lines of DFW and MCF7 derived from human melanoma and breast cancer, respectively. To select the optimalconcentration for PDT, the cytotoxicity of agents was investigated atconcentrations of 3, 6, 9 and 12 μM. Moreover, a LEDs system at 630 nm and power output of 3 W was used to apply PDT process. MTT test was used to determine cell survival 24 hours after treatment. Several indexes were utilized for datacomparison, such as therapeutic efficacy (TE), necessary concentration to kill50% of cells (IC50), and necessary light exposure to induce 50% cell death(ED50).RESULTS: LED exposure alone did not cause significant cell death. ForMTX-mPEG-HAuNP, at both cell lines, IC50 had the least exposure to dark conditionwith an exposure time of less than 9 min and this nanostructure had the smallest ED50 in each cell line at all concentrations. TE of MTX-mPEG-HAuNP at differentexposures and concentrations was greater than 1 for the DFW cells. It was alsotrue for concentrations greater than 6 μM with irradiation times longer than3 min for MCF7 cells.CONCLUSION: This is the first paper to use PEGylated hollow gold nanoparticles asthe nanocarrier for MTX. The results indicated that MTX-mPEG-HAuNP improved theefficacy of PDT with Light Emission diode.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2018.07.011 PMID: 30048763 