175. WMJ. 2018 Jun;117(2):55-61.Increasing Mammography Uptake Through Academic-Community Partnerships TargetingImmigrant and Refugee Communities in Milwaukee.Kamaraju S(1), DeNomie M(2), Visotcky A(3), Banerjee A(3), Krause K(4), TavaresE(4), Rao A(4), Drew E(5), Neuner J(4), Stolley M(6).Author information: (1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematologyand Oncology, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, skamaraju@mcw.edu.(2)Medical College of Wisconsin, Department of Family and Community Medicine,Milwaukee, Wisconsin.(3)Medical College of Wisconsin, Department of Biostatistics, Milwaukee,Wisconsin.(4)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.(5)University of Alaska Fairbanks, Division of Anthropology, Fairbanks, Alaska.(6)Medical College of Wisconsin, Department of Medicine, Clinical Cancer Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.INTRODUCTION: Milwaukee, a city characterized by high rates of racial segregationand a growing immigrant population, has large race-based breast cancer survivaldisparities. To address these disparities, breast health education workshops wereoffered through a community-academic partnership (CAP) to women from variousethnic backgrounds. This paper explores attendance, satisfaction, and rates ofscreening mammography among workshop attendees.METHODS: Partnerships were formed with community-based organizations, a mobilemammography unit, and the Wisconsin Well Woman Program, a state-supported programproviding free mammograms. Multilingual staff provided monthly breast healtheducation workshops at community settings and coordinated transportation.Participants completed surveys that included demographics, prior screeninghistory, barriers to screening, and program evaluation. Descriptive statisticswere used to summarize and analyze data.RESULTS: Over a 24-month period, 493 women-most of whom sought services atpartnering organizations that serve primarily immigrants, refugees, and racialminorities-attended breast health workshops, with 374 participants completingsurveys (mean age = 45 years). A total of 360 were ≥ 40 years old. Among thesewomen, 188 (113 insured [60%], 75 uninsured [40%]) reported no prior mammogram inthe past 2 to 5 years. After attending the workshop, mammogram uptake was 100%among the insured and 80% among the uninsured. Satisfaction with the workshopswas high; 73% of attendees rated them highly informative.CONCLUSIONS: Our CAP offered culturally tailored breast health education andaccess to screening via a mobile unit that was well attended, highly rated, andincreased screening mammography.Copyright© Wisconsin Medical Society.PMID: 30048573 