116. Br J Radiol. 2018 Jul 27:20170979. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20170979. [Epub ahead ofprint]Radiobiological parameters for breast cancer: a Monte Carlo analysis of STARTtrial published results.Guirado D(1), de la Vega JM(1), Guerrero R(1), Lallena AM(2).Author information: (1)1 Unidad de Radiofísica, Nuevo Hospital Clínico "San Cecilio" , Granada ,Spain.(2)2 Departamento de Física Atómica, Molecular y Nuclear, Universidad de Granada , Granada , Spain.OBJECTIVE: Trial results are usually given in terms of end point confidenceintervals, the data concerning the participating patients being not available.Sometimes, it would be useful or necessary to obtain derived quantities, such as dose-response relationships, from the known information. In this work, wedescribe a methodology that allows to do that and illustrate it by analyzing the UK standardization of breast radiotherapy (START) trials.METHODS: Using Monte Carlo techniques, virtual data sets were generated bysampling trial outcome distributions in terms of the tumor control probability(described by means of a logistic dose response and the equations of isoeffect inthe linear-quadratic model). After fitting the available experimental data, theradiobiological parameters of interest and their confidence intervals wereobtained from the TCP vs 'EQD2 curve in which the surgery effect is also takeninto account.RESULTS: The value of [Formula: see text] obtained for breast cancer was 3.6 Gy, with a 95% confidence interval of (1.5,15.5) Gy, in agreement with the oneestimated by the START group. The time factor, referred to a scheme of 2 Gy perfraction, was 0.74 (0.41,2.67) Gy day-1, of the same order than that estimatedfor head and neck cancers.CONCLUSION: A methodology permitting an analysis of trial results was developedand tested with the results of the START trials. The procedure does not requiredetailed knowledge of the distributions actually found in the trials. The values obtained for the parameters are similar to those of the START estimations andthis can be considered an independent confirmation of their validity, thusshowing the model usefulness. The methodology presented here relies on basicstatistical methods that are general enough to permit it to be applied to anykind of trial. This may be particularly interesting when the original data are nolonger available. Advances in knowledge: The main novelty of this paper is toprovide with a Monte Carlo based tool that permits an independent analysis ofpublished trial results in order to obtain radiobiological parameters without adetailed knowledge of the data corresponding to the participating patients.DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20170979 PMID: 30052466 