30. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2018 Aug;35:85-91. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2018.06.003. Epub 2018Jun 22.Coping with chemotherapy for breast cancer: Asking women what works.Gibbons A(1), Groarke A(2).Author information: (1)Health Psychology Research Unit, Royal Holloway, University of London, Egham, Surrey, TW20 0EX, United Kingdom; School of Psychology, Room 1042, AMBE, NationalUniversity of Ireland, Galway, Ireland. Electronic address:andrea.gibbons@rhul.ac.uk.(2)School of Psychology, Room 1042, AMBE, National University of Ireland, Galway,Ireland.PURPOSE: To explore the coping strategies women use to cope with the side effectsand distress of chemotherapy for breast cancer.METHODS: Twenty women with breast cancer who received chemotherapy took part inqualitative, semi-structured face-to-face interviews about their copingstrategies. Ten women had received their diagnosis via a national breast cancerscreening programme, and ten women had been diagnosed through referral to asymptomatic breast cancer services clinic. Data was analysed using thematicanalysis based on an interpretative phenomenological approach.RESULTS: A combination of coping strategies were utilised to deal with the sideeffects of chemotherapy, with three main themes emerging. Behavioural copingstrategies such as anticipatory coping and maintenance of activities were used toregain a sense of control. Emotional coping strategies such as seeking supportand reappraisal were utilised to cope with treatment-related distress. Women alsoengaged in coping appraisal, whereby women evaluated how effective theirresponses were in reducing their distress, often leading to a change in thecoping strategies used. Women who were diagnosed through the screening programme were less likely to seek treatment information or access cancer support services.CONCLUSIONS: Anticipating side effects and engaging in coping strategies tominimise their impact highlights the importance of providing accurate informationabout the side effects of treatment, and the potential for these strategies ascomponents of effective interventions to reduce distress. Oncology nurses areideally placed to drive provision of pre-chemotherapy care programmes thatinclude specific preparatory information to increase adaptive coping, and reduce distress.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2018.06.003 PMID: 30057089 