20. Front Physiol. 2018 Jul 13;9:902. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2018.00902. eCollection2018.Regulation of V-ATPase Assembly in Nutrient Sensing and Function of V-ATPases in Breast Cancer Metastasis.Collins MP(1), Forgac M(1)(2).Author information: (1)Program in Cell, Molecular and Developmental Biology, Sackler School ofGraduate Biomedical Sciences, Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States.(2)Department of Developmental, Molecular and Chemical Biology, School ofMedicine, Tufts University, Boston, MA, United States.V-ATPases are proton pumps that function to acidify intracellular compartments inall eukaryotic cells, and to transport protons across the plasma membrane ofcertain specialized cells. V-ATPases function in many normal and diseaseprocesses, including membrane traffic, protein degradation, pathogen entry, andcancer cell invasion. An important mechanism of regulating V-ATPase activity invivo is regulated assembly, which is the reversible dissociation of theATP-hydrolytic V1 domain from the proton-conducting V0 domain. Regulated assemblyis highly conserved and occurs in response to various nutrient cues, suggestingthat it plays an important role in cellular homeostasis. We have recently foundthat starvation of mammalian cells for either amino acids or glucose increasesV-ATPase assembly on lysosomes, possibly to increase protein degradation (foramino acid homeostasis) or for the utilization of alternative energy sources(during glucose starvation). While regulation of assembly in response to aminoacid starvation does not involve PI3K or mTORC1, glucose-regulated assemblyinvolves both PI3K and AMPK. Another important form of V-ATPase regulation is thetargeting of the enzyme to different cellular membranes, which is controlled byisoforms of subunit a. We have shown that V-ATPases are localized to the plasmamembrane of highly invasive breast cancer cells, where they promote cellmigration and invasion. Furthermore, overexpression of the a3 isoform isresponsible for plasma membrane targeting of V-ATPases in breast tumor cellsleading to their increased invasiveness.DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2018.00902 PMCID: PMC6053528PMID: 30057555 