75. Support Care Cancer. 2018 Jul 27. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4369-9. [Epub ahead of print]Perpetuating the cycle of silence: the intersection of uncertainty and sexualhealth communication among couples after breast cancer treatment.Canzona MR(1)(2), Fisher CL(3), Ledford CJW(4).Author information: (1)Department of Communication, Wake Forest University, P.O. Box 7347,Winston-Salem, NC, 27109, USA. Canzonmr@wfu.edu.(2)Department of Social Sciences & Health Policy, Wake Forest University Schoolof Medicine, P.O. Box 7347, Winston-Salem, NC, 27109, USA. Canzonmr@wfu.edu.(3)Department of Advertising, UF Health Cancer Center, STEM TranslationalCommunication Center, Center for Arts in Medicine, University of Florida,Gainesville, FL, USA.(4)Department of Family Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the HealthSciences, Bethesda, MD, USA.PURPOSE: The aims of this study are (1) to identify sources of uncertainty breastcancer survivors and partners of breast cancer survivors (BCS) report as a resultof sexual health changes after primary treatment and (2) to investigate thechallenges they experience when attempting to communicate about sexualhealth-related uncertainty.METHODS: Forty BCS and 13 partners completed written reflections and participatedin semi-structured interviews.RESULTS: Analyses revealed five predominant sources of uncertainty for BCS andpartners: perceptions of post-treatment body, worry about effects on relationalpartners, ethical concerns about dissatisfaction with sexual relationship(partners only), fears about future of the relationship, and apprehension aboutSH treatment futility. These concerns are linked to communication challenges for couples: supporting survivors' body esteem, navigating potentially hurtfuldisclosures, responding to partners' "obstructive behavior," and believingcommunication is futile.CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest women and partners find themselves caught in adestructive cycle that reinforces uncertainty and inadvertently perpetuatessilence and relational distress. To disrupt the cycle of silence, BCS andpartners need to know that their interpretation of the other person'sbehaviors/needs is not always accurate. Strategies are required to help women andtheir partners express uncomfortable thoughts and feelings in safe and supportiveenvironments. Practitioners should be conscious of potential SH issues, befamiliar with existing support resources for survivors, and be prepared todisseminate information that will empower women and their partners.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4369-9 PMID: 30054721 