Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.109. Medwave. 2018 Jul 9;18(4):e7161. doi: 10.5867/medwave.2018.04.7160.Prophylactic mastectomy versus surveillance for the prevention of breast cancerin women's BRCA carriers.[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]Honold F(1), Camus M(2).Author information: (1)Facultad de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago,Chile; Proyecto Epistemonikos, Santiago, Chile.(2)Proyecto Epistemonikos, Santiago, Chile; Departamento de Cirugía Oncológica,Facultad de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile. Email: mcamus@med.puc.cl. Address: Centro Evidencia UC, Pontificia UniversidadCatólica de Chile, Av. Diagonal Paraguay 476, piso 1, Santiago, Chile.INTRODUCTION: Women who have mutations in BRCA genes have a high risk ofdeveloping breast cancer. Therefore, multiple preventive strategies have beenproposed, within which is prophylactic mastectomy. Considering physical andpsychological effects of surgery, the controversy is established as to whetherthe preventive effect exceeds that of active vigilance.METHODS: To answer this question we used Epistemonikos, the largest database ofsystematic reviews in health, which is maintained by screening multipleinformation sources, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane, among others. Weextracted data from the systematic reviews, reanalyzed data of primary studies,conducted a meta-analysis and generated a summary of findings table using theGRADE approach.RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We identified 13 systematic reviews including 50 studiesoverall. We concluded prophylactic mastectomy is associated with frequent adverseeffects, but probably reduces the incidence of breast cancer and decreasesmortality, in addition to being associated with high levels of satisfaction.Publisher: Las mujeres que poseen mutaciones en genes BRCA tienen un alto riesgo de desarrollar cáncer de mama. Por lo anterior, se han planteado múltiplesestrategias preventivas dentro de las cuales se encuentra la mastectomíaprofiláctica. Existe controversia sobre si los beneficios de esta intervenciónsuperan al de una vigilancia activa, en especial considerando el impacto físico ypsicológico asociado.Para responder esta pregunta utilizamos Epistemonikos, lamayor base de datos de revisiones sistemáticas en salud, la cual es mantenidamediante búsquedas en múltiples fuentes de información, incluyendo MEDLINE,EMBASE, Cochrane, entre otras. Extrajimos los datos desde las revisionesidentificadas, analizamos los datos de los estudios primarios, realizamos unmetanálisis y preparamos una tabla de resumen de los resultados utilizando elmétodo GRADE.Identificamos 13 revisiones sistemáticas que en conjunto incluyen 50estudios primarios. Concluímos que si bien la mastectomía profiláctica se asocia a efectos adversos frecuentes, reduce la incidencia de cáncer de mama y lamortalidad, y podría asociarse a altos niveles de satisfacción.PMID: 30052622 