Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.138. Quant Imaging Med Surg. 2018 Jun;8(5):525-534. doi: 10.21037/qims.2018.05.06.Review of radiological screening programmes for breast, lung and pancreaticmalignancy.Barton H(1), Shatti D(2), Jones CA(1), Sakthithasan M(1), Loughborough WW(3).Author information: (1)Bristol Royal Infirmary, University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust,Bristol, UK.(2)North Bristol NHS Trust, Bristol, UK.(3)Royal United Hospital Bath NHS Foundation Trust, Bath, UK.The premise of medical screening is to identify clinically occult disease,facilitating intervention at an early stage with the intention of improvingprognosis. Identifying solid organ malignancy before nodal or distal metastaseshave occurred unanimously offers the best chance of successful radical treatment,thus there is clearly a potential significant mortality benefit for successfuloncological screening programmes. However, the negative consequences of screeninghave to be considered, particularly the impact of intervening in asymptomaticpopulations. Diagnostic radiology has an invaluable ability to non-invasivelydetect disease and has developed an essential role in several oncologicalscreening programmes with new programmes emerging. These include the established mammography screening programme for breast carcinoma, the emerging CT screeningprogramme for lung carcinoma and a new proposed radiological screening programme for pancreatic carcinoma. Results from published randomized controlled trialsanalysing the benefits of radiological screening have been convoluted andconflicting. Cancer screening remains a widely contested topic and it is achallenge for both radiologist and clinician to assess the risks and benefits at both a population and individual patient level. In this article, we discussradiological screening and analyse the current literature on these programmes,with evaluation of recently published studies and ongoing trials.DOI: 10.21037/qims.2018.05.06 PMCID: PMC6037950PMID: 30050787 