129. Ann Surg Oncol. 2018 Jul 26. doi: 10.1245/s10434-018-6679-z. [Epub ahead ofprint]Implications of Internal Mammary Lymph Node Sampling During Microsurgical Breast Reconstruction.Rose JF(1), Zavlin D(2), Menn ZK(1), Eldor L(1)(3), Chegireddy V(1)(4), BakerTP(4), Teh BS(5), Lim SJ(4), Spiegel AJ(1).Author information: (1)Institute for Reconstructive Surgery, Houston Methodist Hospital, WeillCornell Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.(2)Institute for Reconstructive Surgery, Houston Methodist Hospital, WeillCornell Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. research@zavlin.com.(3)Department of Plastic Surgery, Rambam Hospital, Haifa, Israel.(4)Department of Surgery, Houston Methodist Hospital, Weill Cornell Medicine,Houston, TX, USA.(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Houston Methodist Hospital, Weill CornellMedicine, Houston, TX, USA.INTRODUCTION: Internal mammary lymph node (IMN) chain assessment for breastcancer is controversial; however, current oncologic data have shed new light onits importance. Metastatic involvement of the IMN chain has implications forstaging, prognosis, treatment, and survival. Here, we analyzed our data gathered during sampling of the IMN and the oncologic treatment changes that resulted fromour findings.METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed on 581 patients who underwentfree-flap breast reconstruction performed by the senior author. All dissectedIMNs were submitted for pathological examination. Patient demographics, oncologicdata, and the results of IMN sampling were reviewed.RESULTS: 581 patients undergoing 981 free flaps were identified. A total of 400lymph node basins were harvested from 273 patients. Of these, nine had positiveIMNs. Two of these nine patients had positive IMNs of the contralateralnonaffected breast. Five patients had positive axillary lymph nodes. Fourpatients had multifocal tumors, one of which was bilateral. Seven patients had anincrease in cancer stage as a result of having positive IMNs. Six patients had a change in treatment: two patients required additional chemotherapy, one received adjuvant radiation therapy, and three necessitated both supplemental chemotherapyand radiation.CONCLUSIONS: Opportunistic biopsy of the IMN while dissecting the recipientvessels is simple and results in no added morbidity. We recommend that biopsy of the IMN chain be performed whenever internal mammary vessels are dissected formicrosurgical anastomosis in breast cancer patients. Positive IMN involvementshould encourage thorough oncological workup and treatment reevaluation.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE IV: Case series.DOI: 10.1245/s10434-018-6679-z PMID: 30051362 