34. Chin Clin Oncol. 2018 Jun;7(3):32. doi: 10.21037/cco.2018.06.02.Transitions in palliative care: conceptual diversification and the integration ofpalliative care into standard oncology care.Saga Y(1), Enokido M(2), Iwata Y(1), Ogawa A(1).Author information: (1)Department of Psycho-Oncology Service, National Cancer Center Hospital East,Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan.(2)Department of Psycho-Oncology Service, National Cancer Center Hospital East,Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan. menokido@east.ncc.go.jp.Palliative care acknowledges the historical origin of the hospice developed inthe UK during the 20th century. Palliative care initially focused primarily onend-of-life care provided at hospices, but then changed to at-home care, leading to the formation of a support system provided by the palliative care team. Thepalliative care team further coordinated with acute care hospitals and becameinvolved in earlier stages of care as well, such as providing symptomatic relief in conjunction with cancer treatment. On this backdrop, the concept of palliativecare itself also evolved over time. In recent years, attempts at early-stagepalliative care from the initial stages of treatment are being studied withrespect to cases with complications such as advanced cancer. Early-stagepalliative care has been reported to improve patient quality of life (QOL),improve depression, reduce the burden on the family, and possibly improvesurvival prognosis for some advanced cancers. Currently, efforts to integratepalliative care into standard oncology care regimens by providing specialistpalliative care and cancer treatment as a single unit are anticipated to entermore widespread practice. Such a care approach differs from conventionalpalliative care, which is started around the time when the end of conventionalcancer treatment, and consists of applying specialist palliative care from thestage where cancer treatments are administered to address with multiple problems.Many breast cancer patients have severe problems such as esthetic outcome,sexuality and psycho-social effects associated with breast cancer itself andtreatment. And it effects their QOL for a long time not only during therapy butalso having done therapy or recurrence. Therefore, it may be effectiveness forpatients to integrate of palliative care into standard oncology care in breastcancer, but the effect of it for only breast cancer patients has not beenreported on yet. In this paper, after reviewing the concepts and historicalevolution of palliative care, we describe the integration of palliative care intostandard oncology care that has been making progress recently.DOI: 10.21037/cco.2018.06.02 PMID: 30056734 