103. Fam Pract. 2018 Jul 20. doi: 10.1093/fampra/cmy069. [Epub ahead of print]General practitioner referrals to one-stop clinics for symptoms that could beindicative of cancer: a systematic review of use and clinical outcomes.Friedemann Smith C(1), Tompson A(1), Holtman GA(1)(2), Bankhead C(1), GleesonF(3), Lasserson D(4), Nicholson BD(1).Author information: (1)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford,Oxford, UK.(2)Department of General Practice and Elderly Care Medicine, University MedicalCentre Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.(3)Department of Radiology, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust,Oxford, UK.(4)Institute of Applied Health Research, College of Medical and Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.Background: One-stop clinics provide comprehensive diagnostic testing in oneoutpatient appointment. They could benefit patients with conditions, such ascancer, whose outcomes are improved by early diagnosis, and bring efficiencysavings for health systems.Objective: To assess the use and outcomes of one-stop clinics for symptoms where cancer is a possible diagnosis.Design and setting: Systematic review of studies reporting use and outcomes ofone-stop clinics in primary care patients.Method: We searched MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane Library for studies assessingone-stop clinics for adults referred after presenting to primary care with anysymptom that could be indicative of cancer. Study selection was carried outindependently in duplicate with disagreements resolved through discussion.Results: Twenty-nine studies were identified, most were conducted in the UK andobservational in design. Few included a comparison arm. A pooled comparison ofthe cancer conversion rate of one-stop and multi-stop clinics was only possiblefor breast symptoms, and we found no significant difference. One-stop clinicswere associated with significant reductions in the interval from referral totesting (15 versus 75 days) and more patients diagnosed on the same day (79%versus 25%) compared to multi-stop pathways. The majority of patients and GPsfound one-stop clinics to be acceptable.Conclusion: This review found one-stop clinics were associated with reduced time from referral to testing, increased same day diagnoses, and were acceptable topatients and GPs. Our conclusions are limited by high levels of heterogeneity,scarcity of comparator groups, and the overwhelmingly observational nature ofincluded studies.DOI: 10.1093/fampra/cmy069 PMID: 30052877 