111. Nurs Res. 2018 Jul 26. doi: 10.1097/NNR.0000000000000300. [Epub ahead of print]Identifying Coordination and Continuity of Care Indicators for Population-BasedCancer Screening Programs: A Delphi Study.Benito L(1), de la Cueva Ariza L, Delgado-Hito P, Martinez Momblan MA, RomeroGarcía M, García M.Author information: (1)Llucia Benito, PhD, RN, is Nurse, Catalan Institute of Oncology, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat and Researcher, IDIBELL, Institute of Biomedical Research,L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain, and Associate Professor, School ofNursing, University of Barcelona, Spain. Laura de la Cueva Ariza, RN, isProfessor, School of Nursing, University of Barcelona, Spain, and Researcher,IDIBELL, Institute of Biomedical Research, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. Pilar Delgado-Hito, PhD, RN, is Professor, School of Nursing, Universityof Barcelona, Spain, and Researcher, IDIBELL, Institute of Biomedical Research,L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. M. Antonia Martinez Momblan, PhD,RN, is Professor, School of Nursing, University of Barcelona, Spain. Marta RomeroGarcía, is Professor, School of Nursing, University of Barcelona, Spain, andResearcher, IDIBELL, Institute of Biomedical Research, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat,Barcelona, Spain. Montse García, PhD, BSc, is Researcher, Catalan Institute ofOncology and IDIBELL, Institute of Biomedical Research, L'Hospitalet deLlobregat, Barcelona, Spain.BACKGROUND: Continuity of care and care coordination are critical issues invirtually all healthcare systems. European guidelines for the quality ofscreening programs for breast and colorectal cancer describe process, structure, and outcome indicators, but none specifically evaluate coordination andcontinuity of care during the cancer screening process.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to identify indicators reflecting carecoordination and continuity in population-based breast and colorectal cancerscreening program.METHODS: A two-round Delphi study was conducted in a sample of 30 cancerscreening nurses to identify quality indicators.RESULTS: The final Delphi consensus resulted in six core indicators for thecancer screening program: adequacy of the referral of the target population from the screening program to other health services, waiting time for referral toother health services, understanding of the screening program by professionalsinvolved in the process, effective information flow between professionalsinvolved in the process, participants' perception of the screening program, and, finally, participants' understanding of information about the program.CONCLUSION: The evaluation of indicators is crucial for quality improvement andshould allow a measuring system to be established that would allow a comparisonof outcomes for all population-based cancer screening programs.DOI: 10.1097/NNR.0000000000000300 PMID: 30052593 