60. Crit Rev Eukaryot Gene Expr. 2018;28(2):129-134. doi:10.1615/CritRevEukaryotGeneExpr.2018021331.The Wonders of Silk Fibroin Biomaterials in the Treatment of Breast Cancer.Tulay P(1), Galam N(2), Adali T(2).Author information: (1)Near East University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medical Genetics,Cyprus 99138.(2)Near East University, Faculty of Engineering, Department of BiomedicalEngineering.Breast cancer has continued to be a cause of increasing morbidity and mortalityin women, being the most common cause of cancer-related deaths among them. Itsmanagement using chemotherapy is continually plagued with problems of systemictoxicity, lack of compliance by patients, and inadequate targeting of cancercells. The future of breast cancer chemotherapy will likely involve the use ofbiocompatible high cell-targeting capacity drug-delivery vehicles like silkfibroin to ameliorate these problems. The utilization of silk fibroinnanoparticles to deliver cytotoxic drugs provides specificity, optimalentrapment, improved therapeutic index, and maximal breast cancer cell toxicitywith minimal or no collateral damage to surrounding normal cells. The silkfibroin obtained from the cocoon of the Bombyx morii worm is processed anddegummed to remove the sericin component; it is then made into nanoparticlesutilizing the desolvation, ionic gelation, or electrospray method. It is thenloaded with an appropriate chemotherapeutic drug (e.g., carboplatin), andcharacterization is performed using physico-chemical methods such asfourier-transform infrared spectroscopy, dynamic light scattering, ortransmission electron microscopy. The nanoparticles are then tested forcytoxicity, and the induction of apoptosis on breast cancer cell lines MC-7(Her2-) and MDA-MB-453 (Her2+). Toxicity and apoptosis are assessed using the MTTassay and ELISA methods, respectively. Silk fibroin has been demonstrated invarious studies to be a very useful tool in specific active or passive drugdelivery to target cancer cells, thus ensuring a maximum destruction and minimum damage to normal surrounding cells, which decreases systemic toxicity andenhances drug efficacy.DOI: 10.1615/CritRevEukaryotGeneExpr.2018021331 PMID: 30055539 