Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No conflict of interest wasdeclared by the authors.23. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 2018 Jul;78(7):707-714. doi: 10.1055/a-0642-9462. Epub2018 Jul 25.Using Probability for Pathological Complete Response (pCR) as a Decision Support Marker for Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in HER2 Negative Breast Cancer Patients - aSurvey Among Physicians.Gass P(1), Untch M(2), Müller V(3), Möbus V(4), Thomssen C(5), Häberle L(1)(6),Erber R(7), Hein A(1), Jud SM(1), Lux MP(1), Hack CC(1), Hartmann A(7), KolbergHC(8), Ettl J(9), Lüftner D(10), Jackisch C(11), Beckmann MW(1), Janni W(12),Schneeweiss A(13)(14), Fasching PA(1), Nabieva N(1).Author information: (1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Erlangen University Hospital,Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Friedrich Alexander University ofErlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Helios Klinikum Berlin-Buch, Berlin, Germany.(3)Hamburg University Hospital, Hamburg, Germany.(4)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Klinikum Frankfurt Höchst, Frankfurt,Germany.(5)Department of Gynecology, Martin-Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle(Saale), Germany.(6)Biostatistics Unit, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, ErlangenUniversity Hospital, Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, FriedrichAlexander University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.(7)Institute of Pathology, Erlangen University Hospital, Comprehensive CancerCenter Erlangen-EMN, Friedrich Alexander University of Erlangen-Nuremberg,Erlangen, Germany.(8)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Marienhospital Bottrop, Bottrop,Germany.(9)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, TechnicalUniversity of Munich, Munich, Germany.(10)Charité University Hospital, Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Department of Hematology, Oncology and Tumour Immunology, Berlin, Germany.(11)Obstetrics and Gynecology, Klinikum Offenbach GmbH, Offenbach, Germany.(12)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm,Germany.(13)National Center for Tumor Diseases, Division Gynecologic Oncology, UniversityHospital, Heidelberg, Germany.(14)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Heidelberg,Heidelberg, Germany.Background: In women with early breast cancer, a pathological complete response(pCR) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy is reported to be associated with animprovement of the survival. The aim of this survey among physicians was toinvestigate whether the probability of achieving pCR in patients with a hormonereceptor-positive, HER2-negative disease encourages physicians to recommendneoadjuvant chemotherapy.Methods: The study was conducted via an online survey that was sent to 493physicians, who were either known as members of national guideline committees,heads of breast cancer centers, being high recruiters in clinical trials orleading a private practice. Participants were asked about a specific case thatshould resemble patients for whom it is unclear, whether they should be treatedwith chemotherapy.Results: 113 (24.5%) physicians participated at the survey, out of which 96.5%had a work experience of more than 10 years and 94.7% were board certified intheir specialty. A total of 84.1% would consider pCR for a decision concerningneoadjuvant chemotherapy. With regard to the pCR probability, 2.7 and 10.6% ofthe participants demanded at least a pCR rate of 5 and 10%, respectively, while25.7% were satisfied with 20% probability, and another 25.7% with a pCR rate of30%.Conclusions: The vast majority of the long-term experienced physicians wouldembrace the implementation of a further method such as the prediction of pCRprobability in clinical routine to support decision making regarding thenecessity of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The cut-off of around 30% pCR probability seems to be a realizable rate to distinguish patient groups.Publisher: Hintergrund Die pathologische Komplettremission (pCR) nachneoadjuvanter Chemotherapie bei Frauen mit Brustkrebs im Frühstadium weist aufeine verbesserte Überlebenswahrscheinlichkeit hin. Ziel dieser Umfrage unterÄrzten war es, zu untersuchen, ob die Wahrscheinlichkeit, dass eineKomplettremission bei Patientinnen mit hormonrezeptorpositivem/HER2-negativemBrustkrebs erreicht wird, Ärzte ermutigen würde, eine neoadjuvante Chemotherapie zu empfehlen. Methoden Die Studie beruht auf eine Online-Umfrage, die an 493Ärzte und Ärztinnen geschickt wurde. Alle angeschriebenen Ärzte und Ärztinnenwaren entweder Mitglieder nationaler Richtlinien-Kommissionen bzw. Leiter vonBrustkrebszentren, hatten bereits viele Patientinnen in klinische Studienrekrutiert oder waren niedergelassene Ärzte bzw. Ärztinnen. Die Teilnehmer wurdennach ihrer Einschätzung eines spezifischen Falles gefragt, wobei der Fall sodargestellt wurde, dass er Ähnlichkeit mit Patientinnen hatte, bei denen dieIndikationsstellung für oder gegen Chemotherapie unklar ist. Ergebnisse Insgesamtnahmen 113 (24,5%) der angeschriebenen Ärzte an der Umfrage teil. Davon hatten96,5% mehr als 10 Jahre Berufserfahrung, und 94,7% waren Fachärzte. Von denStudienteilnehmern gaben 84,1% an, dass sie die pathologische Komplettremissionbei der Entscheidungsfindung für oder gegen neoadjuvante Chemotherapieheranziehen würden. Was die Wahrscheinlichkeit eines pCR betrifft, gaben 2,7 bzw.10,6% der Teilnehmer an, dass sie eine pCR-Rate von mindestens 5 bzw. 10%erwarteten, wohingegen 25,7% mit einer 20%iger Wahrscheinlichkeit und weitere25,7% mit einer pCR-Rate von 30% zufrieden wären. Schlussfolgerungen Dieüberwiegende Mehrzahl der Ärzte mit langjähriger Erfahrung würden die Einführung einer weiteren Methode als Unterstützungshilfe bei der Entscheidungsfindung,beispielsweise die Voraussage der pCR-Wahrscheinlichkeit, in der klinischenPraxis begrüßen. Ein Schwellenwert von rund 30% für die Wahrscheinlichkeit eines pCR scheint ein geeigneter Wert zu sein, um eine Unterscheidung zwischenverschiedenen Patientinnengruppen vorzunehmen.DOI: 10.1055/a-0642-9462 PMCID: PMC6059863PMID: 30057427 