68. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2018 Jul 28. doi: 10.1002/term.2729. [Epub ahead ofprint]Three-dimensional Tissue Culture Model of Human Breast Cancer for the Evaluation of Multidrug Resistance.Ding Y(1), Liu W(1), Yu W(2), Lu S(3), Liu M(1), Kaplan DL(4), Wang X(1).Author information: (1)College of Basic Medical Science, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, P R.China.(2)Dalian Zhongshan Hospital Affiliated Dalian University, Dalian, P R. China.(3)National Engineering Laboratory for Modern Silk, Soochow University, Suzhou, PR. China.(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Tufts University, Medford, MA, UnitedStates.Multidrug resistance (MDR) is one of the major obstacles to improving outcomes ofchemotherapy in tumor patients. However, progress has been slow to overcome this phenomenon due to the limitations of current cell/tissue models in recapitulatingMDR behavior of tumor cells in vitro. To address this issue, a morepathologically relevant, three-dimensional (3D) culture of human breast cancercells was developed by seeding the adriamycin-resistant cells MCF-7R insilk-collagen scaffolds. The cultures of the parental cell line MCF-7 served ascontrols. Distinct growth profiles of MCF-7R and MCF-7 cells were observed whenthey were cultured in the scaffolds in comparison with those in the monolayerculture, including cell proliferation, cellular aggregate formation andexpression of drug resistance-related genes/proteins. Moreover, the 3D culturesof these cell lines especially the cultures of MCF-7R exhibited a significantlyenhanced drug resistance evidenced by their increased IC50 values to theanti-cancer drugs and improved drug efflux capability. An altered cell cycledistribution and improved percentage of breast cancer stem cell (BCSC)-like cellswas also found in the present study. This might play important role in promoting the drug-resistance production in those 3D cultures. Thus, we establishedimproved 3D cultures of MDR human breast cancer. It would provide a robust tissuemodel for use to evaluate the efficacy of anti-cancer drugs, explore mechanismsof MDR and enrich breast cancer stem cells in vitro.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/term.2729 PMID: 30055109 