52. BMJ Open. 2018 Jul 28;8(7):e021770. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-021770.Life after breast cancer: moving on, sitting down or standing still? Aprospective study of Canadian breast cancer survivors.Sabiston CM(1), Wrosch C(2), Fong AJ(3), Brunet J(4), Gaudreau P(5), O'LoughlinJ(6), Meterissian S(7).Author information: (1)Faculty of Kinesiology and Physical Education, University of Toronto, Toronto,Ontario, Canada.(2)Department of Psychology, Concordia University, Montreal, Ontario, Canada.(3)School of Kinesiology and Health Studies, Queen's University, Kingston,Ontario, Canada.(4)School of Human Kinetics, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.(5)School of Psychology, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.(6)Centre de recherche CHUM, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.(7)Cedar's Breast Clinic, McGill University Health Center, Montreal, Quebec,Canada.INTRODUCTION: Breast cancer (BC) is associated with serious physical andpsychological health sequelae that affect quality and quantity of life. Physical activity (PA) and sedentary behaviour can prevent or diminish these sequelae;yet, little is known about how these lifestyle behaviours change after cancertreatment and if these changes affect post-treatment health. The first aim ofthis study is to describe natural trends in lifestyle behaviours (ie, PA,sedentary behaviour) in women treated for BC. The second aim is to examine thelongitudinal associations between lifestyle behaviour changes and (1) physicalhealth (eg, acute symptoms, chronic conditions, body composition,patient-reported fatigue, pain and functioning), (2) psychological health andillness (eg, depression, stress, affect, post-traumatic growth, cancer worry,mood, body image) and (3) biological functioning (eg, cortisol and C-reactiveprotein). The third aim is to examine modifiable self-regulation (ie, goaladjustment strategies) and motivation constructs (ie, self-determinedregulations) that predict trends in lifestyle behaviours.METHOD AND ANALYSIS: This is a prospective longitudinal study of 201 womentreated for BC. Data (eg, surveys, accelerometers, saliva, blood) are collectedevery 3 months during the first year after women complete systemic treatment for a first diagnosis of BC, and once every year for 4 years thereafter. Dataanalyses assess trends and changes in PA and sedentary lifestyle behaviours,examine associations between these trends and changes in health outcomes andidentify modifiable predictors of PA and sedentary lifestyle behaviours usingmultilevel modelling.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval was obtained from the University ofToronto (REB# 28180) and has been funded by the Canadian Institutes of HealthResearch (#186128). Study findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewedpublications, academic conferences, local community-based presentations such asthe Canadian Cancer Society and similar organisations.© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2018. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. Nocommercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2018-021770 PMCID: PMC6067354PMID: 30056387 