99. Cancer Sci. 2018 Jul 27. doi: 10.1111/cas.13752. [Epub ahead of print]Combined effect of cabozantinib and gefitinib in crizotinib-resistant lung tumorsharboring ROS1 fusions.Kato Y(1), Ninomiya K(1), Ohashi K(1)(2), Tomida S(3), Makimoto G(1), WatanabeH(1), Kudo K(1), Matsumoto S(4), Umemura S(4), Goto K(4), Ichihara E(2), NinomiyaT(1), Kubo T(5), Sato A(2), Hotta K(2)(6), Tabata M(5), Toyooka S(7), Maeda Y(1),Kiura K(2).Author information: (1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Respiratory Medicine, OkayamaUniversity Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences.(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Okayama University Hospital.(3)Department of Biobank, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences.(4)Department of Thoracic Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital East.(5)Center for Clinical Oncology, Okayama University Hospital.(6)Center for Innovative Clinical Oncology, Okayama University Hospital.(7)Department of General Thoracic Surgery and Breast and EndocrinologicalSurgery, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry andPharmaceutical Sciences.The ROS1 tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) crizotinib has shown dramatic effects inpatients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring ROS1 fusion genes.However, patients inevitably develop resistance to this agent. Therefore, a newtreatment strategy is required for lung tumors with ROS1 fusion genes. Two lungcancer cell lines, HCC78 harboring SLC34A2-ROS1 and ABC-20 harboring CD74-ROS1,were used as cell line-based resistance models. Crizotinib-resistant HCC78R cellswere established from HCC78. We comprehensively screened the resistant cellsusing a phosphor-receptor tyrosine kinase array and RNA sequence analysis bynext-generation sequencing (NGS). HCC78R cells showed upregulation of HB-EGF and activation of EGFR phosphorylation and the EGFR signaling pathway. RecombinantHB-EGF or EGF rendered HCC78 cells or ABC-20 cells resistant to crizotinib. RNAsequence analysis by NGS revealed the upregulation of AXL in HCC78R cells. HCC78Rcells showed marked sensitivity to EGFR-TKIs or anti-EGFR antibody treatment invitro. Combinations of an AXL-inhibitor, cabozantinib or gilteritinib, and anEGFR-TKI were more effective against HCC78R cells than monotherapy with anEGFR-TKI or AXL inhibitor. The combination of cabozantinib and gefitinibeffectively inhibited the growth of HCC78R tumors in an in vivo xenograft modelof NOG mice. The results of this study indicated that HB-EGF/EGFR and AXL playroles in crizotinib resistance in lung cancers harboring ROS1 fusions. Thecombination of cabozantinib and EGFR-TKI may represent a useful alternativetreatment strategy for patients with advanced NSCLC harboring ROS1 fusion genes. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1111/cas.13752 PMID: 30053332 