55. Clin Breast Cancer. 2018 Jul 6. pii: S1526-8209(18)30447-6. doi:10.1016/j.clbc.2018.07.002. [Epub ahead of print]Neoadjuvant Endocrine Therapy in Breast Cancer Upregulates the Cytotoxic DrugPump ABCG2/BCRP, and May Lead to Resistance to Subsequent Chemotherapy.Baxter DE(1), Kim B(2), Hanby AM(3), Verghese ET(4), Sims AH(5), Hughes TA(6).Author information: (1)School of Medicine, University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom.(2)Department of Breast Surgery, St. James's University Hospital, Leeds, UnitedKingdom.(3)School of Medicine, University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom; Department of Histopathology, St. James's University Hospital, Leeds, United Kingdom.(4)Department of Histopathology, St. James's University Hospital, Leeds, UnitedKingdom.(5)Applied Bioinformatics of Cancer Group, University of Edinburgh CancerResearch UK Centre, MRC Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.(6)School of Medicine, University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom. Electronicaddress: t.hughes@leeds.ac.uk.INTRODUCTION: Neoadjuvant treatments for primary breast cancer are becoming more common; however, little is known about how these impact on response to subsequentadjuvant therapies. Conveniently, neoadjuvant therapy provides opportunities toconsider this question, by studying therapy-induced expression changes usingcomparisons between pre- and posttreatment samples. These data are relativelylacking in the context of neoadjuvant endocrine therapy, as opposed to the morecommon neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Here, we investigate the relevance of expressionof the xenobiotic transporter ABCG2/BCRP, a gene/protein associated withchemoresistance, in the context of neoadjuvant endocrine therapy and particularlywith reference to subsequent chemotherapy treatment.MATERIALS AND METHODS: ABCG2/BCRP expression was assessed by immunohistochemistryor by expression arrays in matched patient samples pre- and post-neoadjuvantendocrine therapy. Cell culture was used to model the impact of endocrinetherapy-induced changes in ABCG2/BCRP on subsequent chemotherapy response, using Western blots, quantitative polymerase chain reaction, survival assays, and cell cycle analyses.RESULTS: ABCG2/BCRP was commonly and significantly upregulated in breast cancers after treatment with neoadjuvant endocrine therapy in 3 separate cohortsencompassing a total of 200 patients. Treatment with the endocrine therapeutictamoxifen similarly induced ABCG2/BCRP upregulation in a relevant model cellline, the estrogen receptor-positive line T47D. Critically, this upregulation wasassociated with significantly increased chemoresistance to subsequent treatmentwith epirubicin, an anthracycline commonly used in breast cancer adjuvantchemotherapy.CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that neoadjuvant endocrine therapy may induce poorresponses to adjuvant chemotherapy, and therefore, that clinical outcomesfollowing this treatment sequence warrant further study.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2018.07.002 PMID: 30055962 