26. Int J Pharm. 2018 Jul 2;549(1-2):1-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.06.048. [Epub ahead of print]A multifunctional ternary Cu(II)-carboxylate coordination polymeric nanocomplexfor cancer thermochemotherapy.Zhang C(1), Li J(1), Qian C(1), Luo X(1), Wang K(1), Zhao P(2), Sun M(3).Author information: (1)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Department of Pharmaceutics, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, China.(2)Department of Analytical Chemistry, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, China. Electronic address: ziyouapi@163.com.(3)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, Department of Pharmaceutics, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, China. Electronic address: msun@cpu.edu.cn.Metal-based photothermal therapy has been widely used in the biomedicine fieldand includes gold nanoparticles, silver nanoparticles and copper sulfidenanoparticles. Furthermore, the coordination bonding-based metal nanocomplex is anew generation of photothermal agents for cancer therapy due to its highphotothermal transduction efficiency, good biocompatibility, biodegradation andbioactivity. In this study, we designed a coordination bonding-based copper(Cu(II))-carboxylate ternary architecture, which consists of a conjugatedopamine-modified nontoxic hyaluronic acid, copper ions and citric acid. When theCu(II) coordinated with the carboxyl groups, the splitting d orbitals energy gap of Cu(II) and the capability of electron transition were enhanced, which canincrease the extinction ability in the near-infrared region for enhancingphotothermal therapy. Moreover, the degradation of hyaluronic acid byhyaluronidase highly expressed in the tumor microenvironment led to the releaseof Cu-citric acid complexes, thus exhibiting an additional chemotherapeuticeffect. The nanocomplexes possessed high-performance photothermal conversion,determined to be 21.3%. The solution could be easily heated to above 42 °C, whichwas sufficient to ablate the cancer cells. An obvious decrease in cell viability was observed in B16F10 cells incubated with the nanocomplexes under laser at the lower concentration of 20 μg/mL Cu(II). Upon near-infrared laser irradiation, thenanocomplexes showed high photothermal therapy and chemotherapeutic efficacy for breast cancer in vivo. This study demonstrated that the Cu(II)-carboxylatecoordination nanocomplex is a promising new effective and facilely preparedthermochemotherapy agent for combination therapy against cancer.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2018.06.048 PMID: 30057350 