Conflict of interest statement: JL, PC, CC, KL, JH, AG, JK, NI, JD, SL, CD, KH,AH, OG, SG, JG, DR, JZ, AB, RW, WH The authors declare that no competinginterests exist.7. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2018 Jul;22(14):4509-4517. doi:10.26355/eurrev_201807_15505.Aberrant expression of Rab1A and its prognostic significance in human colorectal cancer.Wang ZK(1), Cheng ZW, Chen SJ, Zhu XG, Gu YP, Yang XD, Sun L, Liu WT, Zhang YJ,Yuan JF, Tian KJ, Yao YZ, He SB.Author information: (1)Department of General Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of SoochowUniversity, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China. captain_hsb@sina.com.OBJECTIVE: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common types of cancerworldwide. Emerging evidence has verified that Rab1A plays an oncogenic role inseveral human malignancies including breast cancer, lung cancer, andhepatocellular carcinomas. However, the clinical significance and prognosticimpact of Rab1A in CRC is still unclear.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We initiated our investigation by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis to confirm Rab1A expression in CRC tissues. Meanwhile, the correlation of Rab1A expression and clinicopathologic features, as well asoutcome in CRC patients, were retrospectively analyzed.RESULTS: In the issue, Rab1A is overexpressed in CRC tissues compared withmatched noncancerous tissues. Meanwhile, high Rab1A expression was significantly associated with the TNM stage, lymph node metastasis, and peritoneal metastasis. In addition, multivariate analyses identified Rab1A expression and TNM stage asindependent predictors for CRC patients. Moreover, Kaplan-Meier survival analysisshowed that patients with high Rab1A expression had a significantly worsesurvival time than those with low Rab1A expression, which especially affected thesurvival in CRC patients with advanced stage. Spearman analysis suggested thatthere was a positive relationship between Rab1A expression and preoperative serumcarcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) for CRC patients.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that Rab1A is an important diagnostic markerfor CRC, and Rab1A can be used as a valuable biomarker for prognosis as well asperitoneal metastasis in CRC patients. Rab1A may prove to be clinically usefulfor developing a new therapeutic target of CRC treatment.PMID: 30058685 