90. J Gen Intern Med. 2018 Jul 31. doi: 10.1007/s11606-018-4581-9. [Epub ahead ofprint]Impact of Practice Facilitation in Primary Care on Chronic Disease Care Processesand Outcomes: a Systematic Review.Wang A(1)(2), Pollack T(3), Kadziel LA(3), Ross SM(3), McHugh M(4)(5), JordanN(4)(6)(7), Kho AN(3)(8).Author information: (1)Center for Health Information Partnerships, Institute for Public Health andMedicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. Andrewwang2015@u.northwestern.edu.(2)Center for Healthcare Studies, Institute for Public Health and Medicine,Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.Andrewwang2015@u.northwestern.edu.(3)Center for Health Information Partnerships, Institute for Public Health andMedicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(4)Center for Healthcare Studies, Institute for Public Health and Medicine,Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg School ofMedicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(6)Departments of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences and Preventive Medicine,Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.(7)Center of Innovation for Complex Chronic Healthcare, Hines VA Hospital, Hines,IL, USA.(8)Division of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.BACKGROUND: More than 100 million individuals in the USA have been diagnosed witha chronic disease, yet chronic disease care has remained fragmented and ofinconsistent quality. Improving chronic disease management has been challengingfor primary care and internal medicine practitioners. Practice facilitationprovides a comprehensive approach to chronic disease care. The objective is toevaluate the impact of practice facilitation on chronic disease outcomes in theprimary care setting.METHODS: This systematic review examined North American studies from PubMed,EMBASE, and Web of Science (database inception to August 2017). Investigatorsindependently extracted and assessed the quality of the data on chronic diseaseprocess and clinical outcome measures. Studies implemented practice facilitation and reported quantifiable care processes and patient outcomes for chronicdisease. Each study and their evidence were assessed for risk of bias and qualityaccording to the Cochrane Collaboration and the Grade Collaboration tool.RESULTS: This systematic review included 25 studies: 12 randomized control trialsand 13 prospective cohort studies. Across all studies, practices and theirclinicians were aware of the implementation of practice facilitation.Improvements were observed in most studies for chronic diseases including asthma,cancer (breast, cervical, and colorectal), cardiovascular disease(cerebrovascular disease, coronary artery disease, dyslipidemia, hypertension,myocardial infarction, and peripheral vascular disease), and type 2 diabetes.Mixed results were observed for chronic kidney disease and chronic illness care.DISCUSSION: Overall, the results suggest that practice facilitation may improvechronic disease care measures. Across all studies, practices were aware ofpractice facilitation. These findings lend support for the potential expansion ofpractice facilitation in primary care. Future work will need to investigatepotential opportunities for practice facilitation to improve chronic diseaseoutcomes in other health care settings (e.g., specialty and multi-specialtypractices) with standardized measures.DOI: 10.1007/s11606-018-4581-9 PMID: 30066117 