Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this article.194. Transl Behav Med. 2018 Jul 30. doi: 10.1093/tbm/iby081. [Epub ahead of print]Utilizing RE-AIM to examine the translational potential of Project MOVE, a novel intervention for increasing physical activity levels in breast cancer survivors.Pullen T(1), Bottorff JL(2), Sabiston CM(3), Campbell KL(4), Eves ND(1)(5),Ellard SL(6), Gotay C(7), Fitzpatrick K(1), Sharp P(1), Caperchione CM(1)(2)(8).Author information: (1)School of Health and Exercise Sciences, University of British Columbia,Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada.(2)Institute for Healthy Living and Chronic Disease Prevention, University ofBritish Columbia, Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada.(3)Faculty of Physical Education, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,Canada.(4)Department of Physical Therapy, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,British Columbia, Canada.(5)Centre for Heart, Lungs and Vascular Health, University of British Columbia,Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada.(6)Cancer Centre of the Southern Interior, British Columbia Cancer Agency,Kelowna, British Columbia, Canada.(7)School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia,Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.(8)Human Performance Research Centre, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney,New South Wales, Australia.Translating effective research into community practice is critical for improving breast cancer (BC) survivor health. The purpose of this study is to utilize theRE-AIM framework to evaluate the translational potential of Project MOVE, aninnovative intervention focused on increasing physical activity (PA) in BCsurvivors. A mixed-methods design, including a self-report questionnaire,accelerometry, focus groups, and interviews, was used to inform each RE-AIMdimension. Reach was evaluated by the representativeness of participants.Effectiveness was reflected by change in PA levels and perceptions ofsatisfaction and acceptability. Adoption was examined using participants'perceived barriers/facilitators to program uptake. Implementation was examined byparticipants' perceived barriers/facilitators to implementing the program.Maintenance was assessed by participant retention. Assessments occurred atbaseline and 6-months. Mixed analysis of variance and content analysis were used to analyze the data. A total of 87 participants participated in Project MOVE and were demographically comparable to similar studies (Reach). Participantsindicated high levels of program satisfaction (88%) and previously inactivesurvivors' significantly increased PA levels from baseline to 6-month follow-up(Effectiveness). Participants reported that a program focused on PA rather thandisease helped them overcome barriers to PA (Adoption) and having leaders with BCand exercise expertise was essential to accommodate population specific barriers (Implementation). At 6-months, participant retention was 83% (Maintenance).Project MOVE is an acceptable, practical, and effective program for engaging BCsurvivors in PA and has the potential to be highly transferable to otherpopulations and regions.DOI: 10.1093/tbm/iby081 PMID: 30060250 