126. An Sist Sanit Navar. 2018 Jul 27;0(0):61798. doi: 10.23938/ASSN.0307. [Epub aheadof print][Night-shift work and breast and prostate cancer risk: updating the evidence fromepidemiological studies].[Article in Spanish]Salamanca-Fernández E(1), Rodríguez-Barranco M, Guevara M, Ardanaz E, Olry deLabry Lima A, Sánchez MJ.Author information: (1)CIBER Epidemiología y Salud Pública. elena.salamanca.easp@juntadeandalucia.es.It has been hypothesized that circadian disruption is related to higher cancerrisk. Since the International Agency for Research on Cancer classified shift workinvolving circadian disruption as probably carcinogenic to humans (Group 2A),multiple studies have been conducted to test this hypothesis. The aim of thissystematic review was to summarize the findings and evaluate the quality ofexisting epidemiological studies (case-control and cohort studies) on therelationship between night-shift work and breast and prostate cancer risk.Thirty-three epidemiological studies investigating the relationship betweennight-shift work and breast (n = 26) or prostate (n = 8) cancer risk wereincluded (one paper included both sites). The Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for thequality of non-randomized studies was used to assess the risk of bias of thepublications. The studies included were heterogeneous regarding population(general population, nurses working in rotating shifts, and other) andmeasurement of exposure to night-shift work (ever vs. never exposure, short vs.long-term, rotating vs. permanent) and, thus, a diversity of outcomes wereobserved even within the same type of cancer. In summary, 62.5% works found some type of association between night-shift work and increased risk of cancer, forboth breast and prostate. The risk of bias scored an average of 7.5 over 9 stars.Due to the limitations inherent in these studies, the evidence of a possibleassociation between night-shift work and breast or prostate cancer risk remainsuncertain and more studies providing greater control of exposure and confounding factors are required. Despite the lack of conclusive evidence, application of theprecautionary principle seems advisable.DOI: 10.23938/ASSN.0307 PMID: 30063040 