82. Med Phys. 2018 Jul 31. doi: 10.1002/mp.13113. [Epub ahead of print]Deformable Mapping Technique to Correlate Lesions in Digital Breast Tomosynthesisand Automated Breast Ultrasound Images.Green CA(1)(2), Goodsitt MM(1)(2), Brock KK(1)(3), Davis CL(4), Larson ED(2), LauJH(2), Carson PL(2).Author information: (1)Department of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, University ofMichigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109, USA.(2)Department of Radiology, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, 48109, USA.(3)Imaging Physics, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX,77030, USA.(4)General Electric Global Research, Niskayuna, NY, 12309.PURPOSE: To develop a deformable mapping technique to match corresponding lesionsbetween digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) and automated breast ultrasound (ABUS)images.METHODS: External fiducial markers were attached to the surface of two CIRSmulti-modality compressible breast phantoms (A and B) containing multiplesimulated lesions. Both phantoms were imaged with DBT (upright positioning withcranial-caudal compression) and ABUS (supine positioning with anterior-to-chestwall compression). The lesions and markers were manually segmented by threedifferent readers. Reader segmentation similarity and reader reproducibility wereassessed using Dice similarity coefficients (DSC) and distances between centersof mass (dCOM ). For deformable mapping between the modalities each reader'ssegmented dataset was processed with an automated deformable mapping algorithm asfollows: First, Morfeus, a finite element (FE) based multi-organ deformable imageregistration platform, converted segmentations into triangular surface meshes.Second, Altair HyperMesh, a FE pre-processor, created base FE models for the ABUSand DBT data sets. All deformation is performed on the DBT image data; the ABUSimage sets remain fixed throughout the process. Deformation was performed on the external skin contour (DBT image set) to match the external skin contour on theABUS set, and the locations of the external markers were used to morph the skincontours to be within a user-defined distance. Third, the base DBT-FE model wasdeformed with the FE analysis solver, Optistruct. Deformed DBT lesions werecorrelated to matching lesions in the base ABUS FE model. Performance (lesioncorrelation) was assessed with dCOM for all corresponding lesions and lesionoverlap. Analysis was performed to determine the minimum number of externalfiducial markers needed to create the desired correlation and the improvement of correlation with the use of external markers.RESULTS: Average DSC for reader similarity ranged from 0.88 to 0.91 (ABUS) and0.57 to 0.83 (DBT). Corresponding dCOM ranged from 0.20 to 0.36 mm (ABUS) and0.11 to 1.16 mm (DBT). Lesion correlation is maximized when all correspondingmarkers are within a maximum distance of 5 mm. For deformable mapping of phantom A, without the use of external markers, only 2 out of 6 correlated lesions showedoverlap with an average lesion dCOM of 6.8 ± 2.8 mm. With use of 3 externalfiducial markers, 5 out of 6 lesions overlapped and average dCOM improved to 4.9 ± 2.4 mm. For deformable mapping of Phantom B without external markers analysis, 4 lesions were correlated out of 7 with overlap between only 1 of 7 lesions, and an average lesion dCOM of 9.7 ± 3.5 mm. With 3 external markers, all 7 possiblelesions were correlated with overlap between 4 out of 7 lesions. The average dCOMwas 8.5 ± 4.0 mm.CONCLUSION: This work demonstrates the potential for a deformable mappingtechnique to relate corresponding lesions in DBT and ABUS images by showingimproved lesion correspondence and reduced lesion registration errors with theuse of external fiducial markers. The technique should improve radiologists'characterization of breast lesions which can reduce patient callbacks,misdiagnoses and unnecessary biopsies. This article is protected by copyright.All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/mp.13113 PMID: 30066340 