112. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2018 Aug 2. doi: 10.3340/jkns.2017.0304. [Epub ahead ofprint]A Nationwide Study of Surgery in a Newly Diagnosed Spine Metastasis Population.Sohn S(1), Chung CK(2)(3)(4)(5), Han KD(6), Jung JH(6), Hyeun JH(1), Kim J(7),Chang UK(8), Sohn MJ(9), Kim SH(10).Author information: (1)Department of Neurosurgery, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University Collegeof Medicine, Seongnam, Korea.(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Seoul National University College of Medicine,Seoul, Korea.(3)Neuroscience Research Institute, Seoul National University Medical ResearchCenter, Seoul, Korea.(4)Clinical Research Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, Korea.(5)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Seoul National University College of Natural Sciences, Seoul, Korea.(6)Department of Biostatistics, The Catholic University of Korea College ofMedicine, Seoul, Korea.(7)Department of Nursing, Chosun University College of Medicine, Gwangju, Korea.(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Korea Cancer Center Hospital, Korea Institute ofRadiological and Medical Science, Seoul, Korea.(9)Department of Neurosurgery, Ilsan Paik Hospital, Inje University College ofMedicine, Ilsan, Korea.(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, St. Vincent's Hospital, The CatholicUniversity of Korea School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.Objective: The aim of this nationwide study was to analyze the current state ofpatients with newly diagnosed metastatic spine tumors according to surgicalmethods.Methods: Data was extracted from the Korean Health Insurance Review andAssessment Service database. Surgery was categorized into three methods : fusion,decompression, and vertebroplasty. Data included patient age, sex, healthinsurance type, and co-morbidities. Survival rates of metastatic spine tumorpatients according to each surgical method were evaluated.Results: Among 1677 patients who had an operation, 823 patients were treated byfusion, 141 patients underwent decompression, and 713 patients were treated byvertebroplasty. The three most prevalent primary tumor sites were the lung,breast, and liver & biliary. On the other hand, the three most prevalent primary tumor sites of patients who underwent surgery were the lung, liver & biliary, andthe prostate. The median survival periods for each surgical method in themetastatic spine tumor patients were 228 days for those who underwent surgery,249 days for decompression, and 154 days for vertebroplasty. Age, sex, andcomorbidities significantly affected survival rate.Conclusion: For every primary tumor site, decompression was the least commonsurgical method during the study period. Although the three surgical methods did not significantly affect the survival period, patients with a poor prognosistended to undergo vertebroplasty.DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2017.0304 PMID: 30064201 