69. Oncol Rep. 2018 Jul 23. doi: 10.3892/or.2018.6589. [Epub ahead of print]Prognostic values of the inhibitor of DNA‑binding family members in breastcancer.Zhou XL(1), Zeng(2), Ye YH(3), Sun SM(3), Lu XF(3), Liang WQ(3), Chen CF(3), Lin HY(3).Author information: (1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, The First Affiliated Hospital ofShantou University Medical College, Shantou, Guangdong 515000, P.R. China.(2)Department of Medical Oncology, The Cancer Hospital of Shantou UniversityMedical College, Shantou, Guangdong 515000, P.R. China.(3)Department of Thyroid and Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital ofShantou University Medical College, Shantou, Guangdong 515000, P.R. China.The inhibitor of DNA‑binding (ID) proteins are dominant‑negative modulators oftranscription factors with basic helix‑loop‑helix (bHLH) structures, whichcontrol a variety of genes in cell cycle regulation. An increasing volume ofevidence has demonstrated that the deregulated expression of IDs in several typesof malignancy, including breast carcinoma, has been proven to serve crucialregulatory functions in tumorigenesis and the development of breast cancer (BC). The present study evaluated the prognostic values of the ID family members byinvestigating a set of publicly accessible databases, including Oncomine,bc‑GenExMiner, Kaplan‑Meier plotter and the Human Protein Atlas. The resultsdemonstrated that mRNA levels of distinct IDs exhibited diverse profiles between BC and normal counterparts. The mRNA expression level of ID2 was significantlyhigher in breast cancer than normal tissues, while the mRNA expression levels of ID1, ID3 and ID4 were significantly lower in breast cancer tissues than in normaltissues. Furthermore, higher mRNA expression levels of ID1 and ID4 wereassociated with subgroups with lower pathological grades and fewer lymph nodemetastases. Survival analysis revealed that elevated mRNA levels of ID1 and ID4predicted an improved survival in all patients with BC. Increased ID1 mRNA levelswere associated with higher relapse‑free survival rates in all patients with BC, particularly in those with ER positive and Luminal A subtype tumors. IncreasedID4 mRNA expression predicted longer survival times in all patients with BC,particularly in those with hormone receptor‑positive tumors or those treated withendocrine therapy. These results indicated that IDs are essential prognosticindicators in BC. Future studies on the effect of IDs on the pathogenesis anddevelopment of BC are warranted.DOI: 10.3892/or.2018.6589 PMID: 30066902 