20. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2018;211:101-123. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-91442-8_8.Everolimus.Hasskarl J(1).Author information: (1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Hugstetterstr. 55, 79106,Freiburg, Germany. Jens.hasskarl@uniklinik-freiburg.de.Everolimus (RAD001) is an oral protein kinase inhibitor of the mTOR (mammaliantarget of rapamycin) serine/threonine kinase signal transduction pathway. ThemTOR pathway regulates cell growth, proliferation and survival, and is frequentlyderegulated in cancer.The EMA has approved Everolimus as Afinitor® for thetreatment of hormone receptor-positive, HER2/neu-negative advanced breast cancer,in combination with exemestane, in postmenopausal women without symptomaticvisceral disease after recurrence or progression following a nonsteroidalaromatase inhibitor, for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well- ormoderately differentiated neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin in adultswith progressive disease, and for the treatment of unresectable or metastatic,well-differentiated (Grade 1 or Grade 2) nonfunctional neuroendocrine tumors ofgastrointestinal or lung origin in adults with progressive disease, and for thetreatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma, whose disease hasprogressed on or after treatment with VEGF-targeted therapy And as Votubia® forthe treatment of adult patients with renal angiomyolipoma associated withtuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), who are at risk of complications (based onfactors such as tumor size or presence of aneurysm, or presence of multiple orbilateral tumors) but who do not require immediate surgery, and for the treatmentof patients with subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with TSCwho require therapeutic intervention but are not amenable to surgery, and as anadd-on treatment in patients from 2 years of age with seizures related to TSCthat have not responded to other treatments (https://www.novartis.com/news/media-releases/novartis-drug-votubiar-receives-eu-approval-treat-refractory-partial-onset ). The FDA has approved Everolimus asAfinitor® for the treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced hormonereceptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer in combination with exemestane,after the failure of treatment with letrozole or anastrozole, for the treatmentof adult patients with progressive neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin(PNET) with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic disease, for thetreatment of adult patients with advanced RCC after failure of treatment withsunitinib or sorafenib, for the treatment of adult patients with renalangiomyolipoma and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), not requiring immediatesurgery. for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients, 3 years of age orolder, with SEGA associated with TSC who require therapeutic intervention but arenot candidates for curative surgical resection. Everolimus shows promisingclinical activity in additional indications. Multiple Phase II and Phase IIItrials of everolimus alone or in combination and will help to further elucidatethe role of mTOR in oncology. For a review on everolimus as immunosuppressant,please consult other sources.DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-91442-8_8 PMID: 30069763 