67. Oncol Rep. 2018 Jul 26. doi: 10.3892/or.2018.6603. [Epub ahead of print]Curcumin and paclitaxel induce cell death in breast cancer cell lines.Calaf GM(1), Ponce-Cusi R(1), Carrión F(2).Author information: (1)Instituto de Alta Investigación, Universidad de Tarapacá, Arica 10000, Chile.(2)Programa de Inmunología Traslacional, Facultad de Medicina, Clínica AlemanaUniversidad del Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile.Breast cancer is one of the major health issues confronting women; however,treatment with conventional chemotherapeutic drugs is limited. Currently,paclitaxel is used as a therapeutic clinical agent to treat breast cancer thatexerts antitumor activity in numerous types of cancer cell. Curcumin(diferuloylmethane), a polyphenol derived from turmeric (Curcuma longa),possesses several properties that could enable it to exert an anticancer effect. Previous reports have demonstrated the synergistic effects of severalchemotherapeutic drugs in combination with curcumin. Therefore, the aim of thecurrent study was to evaluate cell death induced by curcumin and paclitaxel aloneand in combination in human breast cancer cell lines: MCF7, an epithelial andluminal-like adenocarcinoma cell line triple positive for estrogen andprogesterone receptor, and MDA-MB-234, a metastatic human breast cancer cell linetriple negative for such receptors, as well as MCF-10F as a normal breast cellline. The results indicated that curcumin and paclitaxel induced apoptosis andnecrosis, which was demonstrated through multiple methods, including assays ofcaspase-3/7 activity, Annexin V, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 activation andprotein expression of caspase-3, nuclear factor (NF)-κB transcription factor and proliferating cell nuclear antigen. The results identified that the combinationof curcumin and paclitaxel had a decreased effect on apoptosis in the malignantMDA-MB-231 cell line compared with in MCF7 or MCF-10F. It was demonstrated thatthe combined treatment with curcumin and paclitaxel resulted in a higher level ofapoptosis compared with either substance alone in breast cancer cell lines.Therefore, breast cancer treatment may benefit from the use of a combination ofdrugs in chemotherapy.DOI: 10.3892/or.2018.6603 PMID: 30066930 