175. Anticancer Res. 2018 Aug;38(8):4393-4402. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.12741.Relationship Between Metabolic Disorders and Breast Cancer Incidence andOutcomes. Is There a Preventive and Therapeutic Role for Berberine?Cazzaniga M(1), Bonanni B(2).Author information: (1)European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy massimiliano.cazzaniga@ieo.it.(2)European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.The association between obesity/overweight and carcinogenesis is a recognizedhighly complex and still partially unknown process. Nevertheless, theseconditions are frequently related with several pathological states such aschronic inflammation, presence of dyslipidemia and insulin-resistance (metabolic disorders) which are now accepted features contributing to the increasedhormonal-dependent cancer risk. Breast cancer incidence and outcome is strictlyrelated to metabolic disorders. Thus, managing these emerging risk factors,should be a new and optimal strategy in breast cancer prevention and therapy.Unfortunately, the agents able to interfere with metabolic disorders, produceoften light or serious side-effects and consequently their compliance andefficacy are weak. Some nutraceutical compounds seem to be an ideal option withthe same activity and effectiveness to ordinary agents but with minor sideeffects. Berberine, an extraordinary medicinal herb, has been proven to have manyclinical pharmacological effects, including lowering of blood glucose, increasinginsulin sensitivity, and correcting lipid metabolism disorders. It has acomparable therapeutic effect to common drugs. It acts contemporarily onhyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia and insulin resistance without their related sideeffects and could be a real alternative in healthy high risk or affected breastcancer patients with metabolic disorders. This commentary examines thepathophysiology of metabolic disorders and its relationship to breast cancer.Moreover, it evaluates the possible role of berberine in the clinical practice.Copyright© 2018, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J.Delinasios), All rights reserved.DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.12741 PMID: 30061203  [Indexed for MEDLINE]