21. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2018;211:19-44. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-91442-8_2.Lapatinib.Voigtlaender M(1), Schneider-Merck T(1)(2), Trepel M(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Oncology, Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation withSection Pneumology, Hubertus Wald Cancer Center, University Medical CenterHamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.(2)Glaxo Smith Kline, Hamburg, Germany.(3)Department of Oncology, Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation withSection Pneumology, Hubertus Wald Cancer Center, University Medical CenterHamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. martin.trepel@klinikum-augsburg.de.(4)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Interdisciplinary Cancer CenterAugsburg, Augsburg Medical Center, Stenglinstr. 2, 86156, Augsburg, Germany.martin.trepel@klinikum-augsburg.de.The human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) family of receptor tyrosinekinases plays an important role in the biology of many cancers. In breast andgastrointestinal cancer, and at lower rates also in additional tumor types, HER2 and its homo- or heterodimerization with HER1 or HER3 are essential for cancercell growth and survival. Breast cancer patients overexpressing HER2 have a more aggressive course of their disease. The poor prognosis associated with HER2overexpression can be substantially improved by adding HER2-targeted therapy tostandard of care using the monoclonal antibody trastuzumab. Lapatinib, an oraldual tyrosine kinase inhibitor, blocks HER1 and HER2 tyrosine kinase activity by binding to the ATP-binding site of the receptor's intracellular domain, resultingin inhibition of tumor cell growth. Lapatinib is generally well tolerated withdiarrhea being the most common adverse effect. However, although being mainly of mild to moderate severity, interruption or discontinuation of treatment has been reported in a substantial proportion of patients in clinical trials. In 2007,lapatinib has been approved in combination with capecitabine in patients withadvanced HER2-positive breast cancer upon progressive disease following standard therapy with anthracyclines, taxanes, and trastuzumab. In 2013, the approval was extended to a chemotherapy-free combination with trastuzumab for patients withmetastatic HER2-positive, hormone receptor-negative breast cancer progressing on prior trastuzumab and chemotherapy. Since 2010, lapatinib is approved incombination with letrozole in the treatment of postmenopausal women with advancedHER2- and hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. In contrast, in first-linecytotoxic-based therapy of both early and advanced HER2-positive breast cancer,data from clinical trials did not provide evidence of additional benefit oflapatinib compared to trastuzumab. Moreover, over the past few years, novelHER2-targeted drugs, either alone or as a combined anti-HER2 approach, have been extensively evaluated, demonstrating a more favorable outcome. Also, neither infirst- nor second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer, lapatinib has beenproven to be superior compared to trastuzumab as hitherto standard of care HER2blockade. Therefore, lapatinib has become somewhat less important in patientswith HER2-positive breast cancer during the past 10 years since its firstintroduction. Nevertheless, consideration of treatment with lapatinib appears to be reasonable in selected patients not only in the approved applications but alsobeyond, and further indications such as HER2-positive refractory metastaticcolorectal cancer may arise in future. Also, lapatinib may have distinctadvantages over antibodies in targeting truncated HER2 and crossing theblood-brain barrier. Finally, the favorable cardiac toxicity profile of lapatinibmakes it an attractive alternative to trastuzumab-based regimens in patients atrisk for cardiac events.DOI: 10.1007/978-3-319-91442-8_2 PMID: 30069757 