14. J Assist Reprod Genet. 2018 Aug 1. doi: 10.1007/s10815-018-1281-7. [Epub ahead ofprint]NMR metabolomics study of follicular fluid in women with cancer resorting tofertility preservation.Castiglione Morelli MA(1), Iuliano A(2), Schettini SCA(2), Petruzzi D(2), FerriA(2), Colucci P(2), Viggiani L(1), Cuviello F(1), Ostuni A(3).Author information: (1)Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata, viale Ateneo Lucano 10,85100, Potenza, Italy.(2)Center for Reproductive Medicine of "San Carlo" Hospital, Potenza, Italy.(3)Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata, viale Ateneo Lucano 10,85100, Potenza, Italy. angela.ostuni@unibas.it.PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the possible application ofmetabolomics to identify follicular fluid changes in cancer patients undergoingfertility preservation. Although metabolomics have been applied already in cancerstudies, this is the first application on follicular fluid of cancer patients.METHODS: We selected for the study ten patients with breast cancer and lymphomawho resorted to oocyte cryopreservation to preserve fertility and ten healthywomen undergoing in vitro fertilization treatments. Follicular fluid wascollected at the time of oocytes retrieval. Metabolomic analysis of follicularfluids was performed by 1H-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy incombination with multivariate analysis to interpret the spectral data. Univariatestatistical analysis was applied to find correlations between patients' features and metabolites identified by NMR.RESULTS: Partial least squares discriminant analysis allowed to discriminatesamples from cancer patients and healthy controls. Univariate statisticalanalysis found significant correlations between patients' features andmetabolites identified by NMR. This finding allowed to identify biomarkers todifferentiate both healthy controls from cancer patients and the two differentclasses of oncological patients.CONCLUSION: The follicular fluids of cancer patients display significantmetabolic alterations in comparison to healthy subjects. NMR-based metabolomicscould be a valid prognostic tool for identifying and selecting the bestcryopreserved oocytes and improving the outcome prediction in cancer womenundergoing in vitro fertilization.DOI: 10.1007/s10815-018-1281-7 PMID: 30069850 