118. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2018 Jul 28. pii: S0002-9378(18)30611-2. doi:10.1016/j.ajog.2018.07.024. [Epub ahead of print]While Women Await Surgery for Type I Endometrial Cancer, DepotMedroxyprogesterone Acetate Reduces Tumor Glandular Cellularity.Fiascone S(1), Danilack VA(2), Kao MJ(3), Cohen M(4), Singh K(5), Kalife E(5),Luis C(6), Lokich E(7), Disilvestro P(8), Robison K(8).Author information: (1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Women & Infants Hospital of RhodeIsland, Providence, RI. Electronic address: sfiascone@bwh.harvard.edu.(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Research, Women & InfantsHospital of Rhode Island, Providence, RI; Department of Epidemiology, BrownUniversity School of Public Health, Providence, RI.(3)The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI.(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Women & Infants Hospital of RhodeIsland, Providence, RI.(5)The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI; Divisionof Gynecologic and Breast Pathology, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island,Providence, RI.(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Research, Women & InfantsHospital of Rhode Island, Providence, RI.(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Program in Women's Oncology, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, Providence, RI.(8)The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI;Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Program in Women's Oncology, Women &Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, Providence, RI.BACKGROUND: Multiple population-level studies have demonstrated an adverse effectof long wait times to surgery on survival for women with endometrial cancer.Other retrospective and non-randomized prospective studies have shown thatpre-operative administration of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA)decreases tumor glandular cellularity, which may be a surrogate marker forclinically meaningful tumor response.OBJECTIVES: To determine whether pre-operative injection with DMPA decreasestumor glandular cellularity when compared to placebo injection in women awaiting hysterectomy for endometrial intraepithelial neoplasia or type I endometrialcancer, and to determine whether DMPA injection affects quality of life whilewaiting for surgery.STUDY DESIGN: This was a double-blind, randomized controlled trial of 400mg DMPA injection or 0.9% saline injection at the pre-operative visit. Patients withrecent use of progesterone analogues were excluded. A sample size of 76 patients (38 per arm) was calculated to detect a 20% difference in decreased glandularcellularity between arms. Pathologic characteristics including the primaryoutcome, tumor glandular cellularity, from patients' diagnostic biopsies werereviewed by two dedicated gynecologic pathologists and compared to post-treatmenthysterectomy specimens. On the night prior to surgery, patients completed theFunctional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endometrial survey (Version 4) to report quality of life while waiting for surgery. In comparing characteristics betweenthe intervention and control groups, t-tests were used for continuous variables, and Chi-square or Fisher's exact tests were used where appropriate forcategorical data.RESULTS: From March 2015 through March 2016, 148 women were screened and 76patients were enrolled. Thirty-eight patients were randomized to and receivedDMPA injection and 38 were randomized to and received placebo injection.Demographics were similar between groups. Patients who received DMPA injectionexperienced a larger decrease in tumor glandular cellularity (mean change -64(-31.8%) versus -14 (-5.5%) cells per quarter high-powered field in DMPA versusplacebo groups, p = 0.002). This effect was most pronounced in women waiting 3weeks or longer for surgery. Several additional histologic andimmunohistochemical markers of tumor differentiation and decreased cellproliferation were more pronounced in the DMPA group than in the placebo group.There were no significant differences in quality of life between groups on theFunctional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endometrial survey. Only 5.3% of patientswho were approached declined to participate due to concerns regarding anintramuscular injection.CONCLUSIONS: Administration of DMPA prior to surgery for type I endometrialcancers caused greater tumor effect than placebo injection. Injection of DMPA wasacceptable to and well-tolerated by patients. DMPA may represent a meaningfulbridge to surgery in women who can expect long wait times.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2018.07.024 PMID: 30063901 