89. J Gen Intern Med. 2018 Jul 31. doi: 10.1007/s11606-018-4601-9. [Epub ahead ofprint]How Do Women View Risk-Based Mammography Screening? A Qualitative Study.He X(1), Schifferdecker KE(2)(3), Ozanne EM(4), Tosteson ANA(2)(5), WoloshinS(2)(3)(5), Schwartz LM(2)(3)(5).Author information: (1)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, The Dartmouth Institute for HealthPolicy and Clinical Practice, Lebanon, NH, USA. xiaofei.he@dartmouth.edu.(2)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, The Dartmouth Institute for HealthPolicy and Clinical Practice, Lebanon, NH, USA.(3)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine atDartmouth, Lebanon, NH, USA.(4)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.(5)Dartmouth-Hitchcock Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Lebanon, NH, USA.BACKGROUND: Decades of persuasive messages have reinforced the importance oftraditional screening mammography at regular intervals. A potential new paradigm,risk-based screening, adjusts mammography frequency based on a woman's estimated breast cancer risk in order to maximize mortality reduction while minimizingfalse positives and overdiagnosis. Women's views of risk-based screening areunknown.OBJECTIVE: To explore women's views and personal acceptability of a potentialrisk-based mammography screening paradigm.DESIGN: Four semi-structured focus group discussions about screening mammography and surveys before provision of information about risk-based screening. Weanalyzed coded focus group transcripts using a mixed deductive (content analysis)and inductive (grounded theory) approach.PARTICIPANTS: Convenience sample of 29 women (40-74 years old) with no personalhistory of breast cancer recruited by print and online media in New Hampshire andVermont.RESULTS: Twenty-seven out of 29 women reported having undergone mammographyscreening. All participants were white and most were highly educated. Some women accepted the idea that early cancer detection with traditional screening wasbeneficial-although many also reported hearing inconsistent recommendations from clinicians and mixed messages from media reports about mammography. Some womenwere familiar with a risk-based screening paradigm (primarily related to cervicalcancer, n = 8) and thought matching screening mammography frequency to personalrisk made sense (n = 8). Personal acceptability of risk-based screening wasmixed. Some believed risk-based screening could reduce the harms of falsepositives and overdiagnosis (n = 7). Others thought screening less often mightresult in missing a dangerous diagnosis (n = 14). Many (n = 18) expressedconcerns about the feasibility of risk-based screening and questioned whetherbreast cancer risk estimates could be accurate. Some suspected that risk-basedmammography was motivated by a desire to save money (n = 6).CONCLUSION: Some women thought risk-based screening made sense. Willingness toabandon traditional screening for the new paradigm was mixed. Broad acceptabilityof risk-based screening will require clearer communication about its rationaleand feasibility and consistent messages from the health care team.DOI: 10.1007/s11606-018-4601-9 PMID: 30066118 