150. Front Psychol. 2018 Jul 16;9:1218. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2018.01218. eCollection2018.Coping Mechanisms, Psychological Distress, and Quality of Life Prior to CancerGenetic Counseling.Di Mattei VE(1)(2), Carnelli L(2)(3), Bernardi M(4), Bienati R(1), Brombin C(5), Cugnata F(5), Rabaiotti E(6), Zambetti M(7), Sarno L(2)(8), Candiani M(6)(8),Gentilini O(9).Author information: (1)Faculty of Psychology, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.(2)Clinical and Health Psychology Unit, Department of Clinical Neurosciences,IRCCS San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.(3)Department of Psychology, University of Milano-Bicocca, Milan, Italy.(4)Language Abilities Department, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.(5)University Centre of Statistics in the Biomedical Sciences, Vita-Salute SanRaffaele University, Milan, Italy.(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, IRCCS San Raffaele Hospital, Milan,Italy.(7)Department of Medical Oncology, IRCCS San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.(8)Faculty of Medicine, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy.(9)Breast Surgery and Breast Unit, IRCCS San Raffaele Hospital, Milan, Italy.Background: Breast Cancer susceptibility genes 1 and 2 are implicated inhereditary breast and ovarian cancer and women can test for the presence of thesegenes prior to developing cancer. The goal of this study is to examinepsychological distress, quality of life, and active coping mechanisms in a sampleof women during the pre-test stage of the genetic counseling process, consideringthat pre-test distress can be an indicator of post-test distress. We also wanted to identify if subgroups of women, defined based on their health status, weremore vulnerable to developing distress during the genetic counseling process.Methods: This study included 181 female participants who accessed a CancerGenetic Counseling Clinic. The participants were subdivided into three groups on the basis of the presence of a cancer diagnosis: Affected patients, Ex-patients, and Unaffected participants. Following a self-report questionnaire, a battery of tests was administered to examine psychological symptomatology, quality of life, and coping mechanisms. Results: The results confirm that the genetic counselingprocedure is not a source of psychological distress. Certain participants wereidentified as being more vulnerable than others; in the pre-test phase, theyreported on average higher levels of distress and lower quality of life. Theseparticipants were predominantly Ex-patients and Affected patients, who may be at risk of distress during the counseling process. Conclusions: These findingshighlight that individuals who take part in the genetic counseling process arenot all the same regarding pre-test psychological distress. Attention should bepaid particularly to Ex-patients and Affected patients by the multidisciplinarytreating team.DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2018.01218 PMCID: PMC6055025PMID: 30061853 