149. Front Immunol. 2018 Jul 16;9:1649. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01649. eCollection2018.Notch Signaling as a Regulator of the Tumor Immune Response: To Target or Not To Target?Janghorban M(1)(2), Xin L(1)(3), Rosen JM(1)(3), Zhang XH(1)(2)(3)(4).Author information: (1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Baylor College of Medicine,Houston, TX, United States.(2)Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX,United States.(3)Dan L. Duncan Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, UnitedStates.(4)McNair Medical Institute, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, UnitedStates.The Notch signaling pathway regulates important cellular processes involved instem cell maintenance, proliferation, development, survival, and inflammation.These responses to Notch signaling involving both canonical and non-canonicalpathways can be spatially and temporally variable and are highly cell-typedependent. Notch signaling can elicit opposite effects in regulatingtumorigenicity (tumor-promoting versus tumor-suppressing function) as well ascontrolling immune cell responses. In various cancer types, Notch signalingelicits a "cancer stem cell (CSC)" phenotype that results in decreasedproliferation, but resistance to various therapies, hence potentiallycontributing to cell dormancy and relapse. CSCs can reshape their niche byreleasing paracrine factors and inflammatory cytokines, and the niche in returncan support their quiescence and resistance to therapies as well as the immuneresponse. Moreover, Notch signaling is one of the key regulators ofhematopoiesis, immune cell differentiation, and inflammation and is implicated invarious autoimmune diseases, carcinogenesis (leukemia), and tumor-inducedimmunosuppression. Notch can control the fate of various T cell types, including Th1, Th2, and the regulatory T cells (Tregs), and myeloid cells includingmacrophages, dendritic cells, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs). Both MDSCs and Tregs play an important role in supporting tumor cells (and CSCs) andin evading the immune response. In this review, we will discuss how Notchsignaling regulates multiple aspects of the tumor-promoting environment byelucidating its role in CSCs, hematopoiesis, normal immune cell differentiation, and subsequently in tumor-supporting immunogenicity.DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01649 PMCID: PMC6055003PMID: 30061899 