66. Oncol Rep. 2018 Jul 30. doi: 10.3892/or.2018.6608. [Epub ahead of print]Transcutaneous carbon dioxide application suppresses bone destruction caused bybreast cancer metastasis.Takemori T(1), Kawamoto T(1), Ueha T(2), Toda M(3), Morishita M(1), Kamata E(1), Fukase N(1), Hara H(1), Fujiwara S(1), Niikura T(1), Kuroda R(1), Akisue T(1).Author information: (1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Kobe University Graduate School ofMedicine, Chuo-ku, Kobe 650-0017, Japan.(2)Division of Rehabilitation Medicine, Kobe University Graduate School ofMedicine, Chuo-ku, Kobe 650-0017, Japan.(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hyogo Rehabilitation Centre, Nishi-ku, Kobe651-2181, Japan.Hypoxia plays a significant role in cancer progression, including metastatic bonetumors. We previously reported that transcutaneous carbon dioxide (CO2)application could decrease tumor progression through the improvement ofintratumor hypoxia. Therefore, we hypothesized that decreased hypoxia usingtranscutaneous CO2 could suppress progressive bone destruction in cancermetastasis. In the present study, we examined the effects of transcutaneous CO2application on metastatic bone destruction using an animal model. The humanbreast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 was cultured in vitro under three differentoxygen conditions, and the effect of altered oxygen conditions on the expression of osteoclast-differentiation and osteolytic factors was assessed. An in vivobone metastatic model of human breast cancer was created by intramedullaryimplantation of MDA-MB-231 cells into the tibia of nude mice, and treatment with 100% CO2 or a control was performed twice weekly for two weeks. Bone volume ofthe treated tibia was evaluated by micro-computed tomography (µCT), and followingtreatment, histological evaluation was performed by hematoxylin and eosinstaining and immunohistochemical staining for hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α, osteoclast-differentiation and osteolytic factors, and tartrate-resistant acidphosphatase (TRAP) staining for osteoclast activity. In vitro experimentsrevealed that the mRNA expression of RANKL, PTHrP and IL-8 was significantlyincreased under hypoxic conditions and was subsequently reduced by reoxygenation.In vivo results by µCT revealed that bone destruction was suppressed bytranscutaneous CO2, and that the expression of osteoclast-differentiation andosteolytic factors, as well as HIF-1α, was decreased in CO2-treated tumortissues. In addition, multinucleated TRAP-positive osteoclasts were significantlydecreased in CO2-treated tumor tissues. Hypoxic conditions promoted bonedestruction in breast cancer metastasis, and reversal of hypoxia bytranscutaneous CO2 application significantly inhibited metastatic bonedestruction along with decreased osteoclast activity. The findings in this study strongly indicated that transcutaneous CO2 application could be a noveltherapeutic strategy for treating metastatic bone destruction.DOI: 10.3892/or.2018.6608 PMID: 30066936 