87. Eur J Nutr. 2018 Jul 31. doi: 10.1007/s00394-018-1789-8. [Epub ahead of print]Metabolic targets of watercress and PEITC in MCF-7 and MCF-10A cells explaindifferential sensitisation responses to ionising radiation.Giallourou NS(1)(2), Rowland IR(1), Rothwell SD(3), Packham G(4), Commane DM(1), Swann JR(5).Author information: (1)Department of Food and Nutritional Science, University of Reading, Reading,UK.(2)Division of Computational and Systems Medicine, Department of Surgery andCancer, Imperial College London, London, UK.(3)Vitacress, Lower Link Farm, St Mary Bourne, Andover, Hampshire, UK.(4)Cancer Research UK Centre, Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton,Southampton, UK.(5)Division of Computational and Systems Medicine, Department of Surgery andCancer, Imperial College London, London, UK. j.swann@imperial.ac.uk.PURPOSE: Watercress is a rich source of phytochemicals with anticancer potential,including phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC). We examined the potential forwatercress extracts and PEITC to increase the DNA damage caused by ionisingradiation (IR) in breast cancer cells and to be protective againstradiation-induced collateral damage in healthy breast cells. The metabolic eventsthat mediate such responses were explored using metabolic profiling.METHODS: 1H nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy-based metabolic profiling wascoupled with DNA damage-related assays (cell cycle, Comet assay, viabilityassays) to profile the comparative effects of watercress and PEITC in MCF-7breast cancer cells and MCF-10A non-tumorigenic breast cells with and withoutexposure to IR.RESULTS: Both the watercress extract and PEITC-modulated biosynthetic pathways oflipid and protein synthesis and resulted in changes in cellular bioenergetics.Disruptions to the redox balance occurred with both treatments in the two celllines, characterised by shifts in the abundance of glutathione. PEITC enhancedthe sensitivity of the breast cancer cells to IR increasing the effectiveness of the cancer-killing process. In contrast, watercress-protected non-tumorigenicbreast cells from radiation-induced damage. These effects were driven by changes in the cellular content of the antioxidant glutathione following exposure toPEITC and other phytochemicals in watercress.CONCLUSION: These findings support the potential prophylactic impact ofwatercress during radiotherapy. Extracted compounds from watercress and PEITCdifferentially modulate cellular metabolism collectively enhancing thetherapeutic outcomes of radiotherapy.DOI: 10.1007/s00394-018-1789-8 PMID: 30066177 