51. BMC Cancer. 2018 Aug 1;18(1):778. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4638-5.Removal of pectoral muscle based on topographic map and shape-shiftingsilhouette.Mughal B(1), Muhammad N(2), Sharif M(1), Rehman A(3), Saba T(4).Author information: (1)Department of Computer Science, COMSATS University Islamabad, Wah Campus, Wah Cantt, Pakistan.(2)Department of Mathematics, COMSATS University Islamabad, Wah Campus, WahCantt, Pakistan. nazeermuhammad@ciitwah.edu.pk.(3)College of Computer and Information Systems, Al-Yamamah University, Riyadh,Saudi Arabia.(4)Department of Information Systems, Prince Sultan University, Riyadh, SaudiArabia.BACKGROUND: In digital mammography, finding accurate breast profile segmentation of women's mammogram is considered a challenging task. The existence of thepectoral muscle may mislead the diagnosis of cancer due to its high-levelsimilarity to breast body. In addition, some other challenges due tomanifestation of the breast body pectoral muscle in the mammogram data includeinaccurate estimation of the density level and assessment of the cancer cell. Thediscrete differentiation operator has been proven to eliminate the pectoralmuscle before the analysis processing.METHODS: We propose a novel approach to remove the pectoral muscle in terms ofthe mediolateral-oblique observation of a mammogram using a discretedifferentiation operator. This is used to detect the edges boundaries and toapproximate the gradient value of the intensity function. Further refinement isachieved using a convex hull technique. This method is implemented on datasetprovided by MIAS and 20 contrast enhanced digital mammographic images.RESULTS: To assess the performance of the proposed method, visual inspections by radiologist as well as calculation based on well-known metrics are observed. For calculation of performance metrics, the given pixels in pectoral muscle region ofthe input scans are calculated as ground truth.CONCLUSIONS: Our approach tolerates an extensive variety of the pectoral musclegeometries with minimum risk of bias in breast profile than existing techniques.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4638-5 PMID: 30068304 