138. Invest New Drugs. 2018 Jul 30. doi: 10.1007/s10637-018-0649-y. [Epub ahead ofprint]HER-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors enhance response to trastuzumab andpertuzumab in HER2-positive breast cancer.Canonici A(1), Ivers L(1), Conlon NT(1), Pedersen K(1), Gaynor N(1), BrowneBC(1), O'Brien NA(2), Gullo G(3), Collins DM(1), O'Donovan N(4), Crown J(1)(3).Author information: (1)Molecular Therapeutics for Cancer Ireland, National Institute for CellularBiotechnology, Dublin City University, Dublin 9, Ireland.(2)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, David Geffen Schoolof Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.(3)Department of Medical Oncology, St Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin,Ireland.(4)Molecular Therapeutics for Cancer Ireland, National Institute for CellularBiotechnology, Dublin City University, Dublin 9, Ireland. norma.odonovan@dcu.ie.Despite trastuzumab and pertuzumab improving outcome for patients withHER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, the disease remains fatal for themajority of patients. This study evaluated the anti-proliferative effects ofadding anti-HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) to trastuzumab and pertuzumab in HER2-positive breast cancer cells. Afatinib was tested alone and incombination with trastuzumab in HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines. TKIs(lapatinib, neratinib, afatinib) combined with trastuzumab and/or pertuzumab weretested in 3 cell lines, with/without amphiregulin and heregulin-1β. Seven of 11HER2-positive cell lines tested were sensitive to afatinib (IC50 < 80 nM).Afatinib plus trastuzumab produced synergistic growth inhibition in eight celllines. In trastuzumab-sensitive SKBR3 cells, the TKIs enhanced response totrastuzumab. Pertuzumab alone did not inhibit growth and did not enhancetrastuzumab-induced growth inhibition or antibody-dependent cellularcytotoxicity. Pertuzumab enhanced response to trastuzumab when combined withlapatinib but not neratinib or afatinib. In two trastuzumab-resistant cell lines,the TKIs inhibited growth but adding trastuzumab and/or pertuzumab did notimprove response compared to TKIs alone. Amphiregulin plus heregulin-1βstimulated proliferation of SKBR3 and MDA-MB-453 cells. In the presence of thegrowth factors, neither antibody inhibited growth and the TKIs showedsignificantly reduced activity. The triple combination of trastuzumab, pertuzumaband a TKI showed the strongest anti-proliferative activity in all three celllines, in the presence of exogenous growth factors. In summary, addition ofanti-HER2 TKIs to combined anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody therapy results inenhanced anticancer activity. These data contribute to the rationale for studyingmaximum HER2 blockade in the clinic.DOI: 10.1007/s10637-018-0649-y PMID: 30062574 