67. J Geriatr Oncol. 2018 Aug 2. pii: S1879-4068(18)30117-6. doi:10.1016/j.jgo.2018.07.010. [Epub ahead of print]Breast cancer treatment and its effects on aging.Chang L(1), Weiner LS(2), Hartman SJ(2), Horvath S(3), Jeste D(4), Mischel PS(5),Kado DM(6).Author information: (1)Departments of Family Medicine & Public Health, School of Medicine, Universityof California, San Diego, United States; Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine University of California, San Diego, United States.(2)Departments of Family Medicine & Public Health, School of Medicine, Universityof California, San Diego, United States; University of California San Diego,Moores Cancer Center, La Jolla, CA, United States.(3)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine, University ofCalifornia, Los Angeles, United States; Department of Biostatistics, FieldingSchool of Public Health, University of California, Los Angeles, United States.(4)Departments of Psychiatry & Neuroscience, University of California, San Diego,United States; Sam and Rose Stein Institute for Research on Aging, United States.(5)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of California, SanDiego, United States; Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, University ofCalifornia, San Diego, United States.(6)Departments of Family Medicine & Public Health, School of Medicine, Universityof California, San Diego, United States; Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine University of California, San Diego, United States; Sam and RoseStein Institute for Research on Aging, United States. Electronic address:dkado@ucsd.edu.Breast cancer is the most common cancer of women in the United States. It is alsoproving to be one of the most treatable. Early detection, surgical intervention, therapeutic radiation, cytotoxic chemotherapies and molecularly targeted agentsare transforming the lives of patients with breast cancer, markedly improvingtheir survival. Although current breast cancer treatments are largely successful in producing cancer remission and extending lifespan, there is concern that thesetreatments may have long lasting detrimental effects on cancer survivors, inpart, through their impact on non-tumor cells. Presently, the impact of breastcancer treatment on normal cells, its impact on cellular function and its effect on the overall function of the individual are incompletely understood. Inparticular, it is unclear whether breast cancer and/or its treatments areassociated with an accelerated aging phenotype. In this review, we considerbreast cancer survivorship from the perspective of accelerated aging, and discussthe evidence suggesting that women treated for breast cancer may suffer from anincreased rate of physical and cognitive decline that likely corresponds withunderlying vulnerabilities of genome instability, epigenetic changes, andcellular senescence.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2018.07.010 PMID: 30078714 