72. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2018 Aug 2. pii: S0936-6555(18)30311-X. doi:10.1016/j.clon.2018.06.014. [Epub ahead of print]Evaluation of a Novel Field-placement Algorithm for Locoregional Breast CancerRadiotherapy Including the Internal Mammary Chain.Ranger A(1), Dunlop A(2), Shah P(3), Amin K(3), Henderson D(4), Bartlett FR(5),Knowles C(3), Brigden B(3), Lacey C(3), Donovan E(6), Harris E(2), Kirby AM(2).Author information: (1)The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK; The Royal Marsden NHS FoundationTrust, London, UK. Electronic address: alison.ranger@icr.ac.uk.(2)The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK; The Royal Marsden NHS FoundationTrust, London, UK.(3)The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.(4)University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.(5)Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, UK.(6)CVSSP, University of Surrey, Guildford, UK.AIMS: Irradiation of the internal mammary chain (IMC) is increasing followingrecently published data, but the need for formal delineation of lymph nodevolumes is slowing implementation in some healthcare settings. A field-placement algorithm for irradiating locoregional lymph nodes including the IMC could reducethe resource impact of introducing irradiation of the IMC. This study describesthe development and evaluation of such an algorithm.MATERIALS AND METHODS: An algorithm was developed in which six pointsrepresenting lymph node clinical target volume borders (based on European Societyfor Radiotherapy and Oncology consensus nodal contouring guidelines) were placed on computed tomography-defined anatomical landmarks and used to place tangential and nodal fields. Single-centre testing in 20 cases assessed the success of thealgorithm in covering planning target volumes (PTVs) and adequately sparingorgans at risk. Plans derived using the points algorithm were also compared with plans generated following formal delineation of nodal PTVs, using the Wilcoxonsigned rank test. Timing data for point placement were collected. Multicentretesting using the same methods was then carried out to establish whether thetechnique was transferable to other centres.RESULTS: Single-centre testing showed that 95% of cases met the nodal PTVcoverage dose constraints (binomial probability confidence interval 75.1-99.9%)with no statistically significant reduction in mean heart dose or ipsilaterallung V17Gy associated with formal nodal delineation. In multicentre testing, 69% of cases met nodal PTV dose constraints and there was a statistically significantdifference in IMC PTV coverage using the points algorithm when compared withformally delineated nodal volumes (P < 0.01). However, there was no difference inaxillary level 1-4 PTV coverage (P = 0.11) with all cases meeting target volumeconstraints.CONCLUSIONS: The optimal strategy for breast and locoregional lymph noderadiotherapy is target volume delineation. However, use of this novelpoints-based field-placement algorithm results in dosimetrically acceptable planswithout the need for formal lymph node contouring in a single-centre setting and for the breast and level 1-4 axilla in a multicentre setting. Further qualityassurance measures are needed to enable implementation of the algorithm forirradiation of the IMC in a multicentre setting.Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2018.06.014 PMID: 30078523 