151. Mol Carcinog. 2018 Aug 3. doi: 10.1002/mc.22882. [Epub ahead of print]Disrupting cholesterol esterification by bitter melon suppresses triple-negative breast cancer cell growth.Shim SH(1), Sur S(1), Steele R(1), Albert CJ(2), Huang C(3), Ford DA(2), RayRB(1)(3).Author information: (1)Departments of Pathology, Saint Louis University, St. Louis, Missouri.(2)Departments of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Saint Louis University, St.Louis, Missouri.(3)Departments of Internal Medicine, Saint Louis University, St. Louis, Missouri.Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is aggressive with a worse prognosis. Wehave recently shown that bitter melon extract (BME) treatment was more effective in inhibition of TNBC tumor growth in mouse models as compared to ER positivebreast tumor growth. Aberrant dysregulation of lipid metabolism is associatedwith breast cancer progression, however, anti-cancer mechanism of BME linkinglipid metabolism in breast cancer growth remains unexplored. Here, we observedthat accumulation of esterified cholesterol was reduced in BME treated TNBC cell lines as compared to control cells. We next evaluated expression levels ofacyl-CoA: cholesterol acyltransferase 1 (ACAT-1) in TNBC cells treated with BME. Our results demonstrated that BME treatment inhibited ACAT-1 expression in TNBCcells. Subsequently, we found that sterol regulatory element-binding proteins-1and -2, and FASN was significantly reduced in BME treated TNBC cell lines.Low-density lipoprotein receptor was also downregulated in BME treated TNBC cellsas compared to control cells. We further demonstrated that BME feeding reducedtumor growth in TNBC mammospheres implanted into NSG mice, and inhibits ACAT-1expression. To our knowledge, this is the first report demonstrating BMEsuppresses TNBC cell growth through ACAT-1 inhibition, and have potential foradditional therapeutic regimen against human breast cancer. This article isprotected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/mc.22882 PMID: 30074275 