126. Drug Resist Updat. 2018 Jul;39:1-17. doi: 10.1016/j.drup.2018.05.002. Epub 2018May 17.Targeting invadopodia for blocking breast cancer metastasis.Meirson T(1), Gil-Henn H(2).Author information: (1)Laboratory of Cell Migration and Invasion, The Azrieli Faculty of Medicine,Bar-Ilan University, Safed 1311502, Israel; Drug Discovery Laboratory, TheAzrieli Faculty of Medicine, Bar-Ilan University, Safed 1311502, Israel.(2)Laboratory of Cell Migration and Invasion, The Azrieli Faculty of Medicine,Bar-Ilan University, Safed 1311502, Israel. Electronic address:Hava.Henn@biu.ac.il.Dissemination of cancer cells from the primary tumor and their spread to distant sites of the body is the leading cause of mortality in metastatic cancerpatients. Metastatic cancer cells invade surrounding tissues and blood vessels byforming F-actin-rich protrusions known as invadopodia, which degrade theextracellular matrix and enable invasion of tumor cells through it. Invadopodiahave now been observed in vivo, and recent evidence demonstrates direct molecularlinks between assembly of invadopodia and cancer metastasis in both mouse models and in human patients. While significant progress has been achieved in the lastdecade in understanding the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathwaysregulating invadopodia formation and function, the application of this knowledge to development of prognostic and therapeutic approaches for cancer metastasis hasnot been discussed before. Here, we provide a detailed overview of currentprognostic markers and tests for cancer metastasis and discuss their advantages, disadvantages, and their predicted efficiency. Using bioinformatic patientdatabase analysis, we demonstrate, for the first time, a significant correlation between invadopodia-associated genes to breast cancer metastasis, suggesting thatinvadopodia could be used as both a prognostic marker and as a therapeutic targetfor blocking cancer metastasis. We include here a novel network interaction mapof invadopodia-associated proteins with currently available inhibitors,demonstrating a central role for the recently identifiedEGFR-Pyk2-Src-Arg-cortactin invadopodial pathway, to which re-purposing ofexistent inhibitors could be used to block breast cancer metastasis. We thenpresent an updated overview of current cancer-related clinical trials,demonstrating the negligible number of trials focusing on cancer metastasis. Wealso discuss the difficulties and complexity of performing cancer metastasisclinical trials, and the possible development of anti-metastasis drug resistance when using a prolonged preventive treatment with invadopodia inhibitors. Thisreview presents a new perspective on invadopodia-mediated tumor invasiveness and may lead to the development of novel prognostic and therapeutic approaches forcancer metastasis.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.drup.2018.05.002 PMID: 30075834 