170. Nanomaterials (Basel). 2018 Aug 2;8(8). pii: E588. doi: 10.3390/nano8080588.Functionalized Folic Acid-Conjugated Amphiphilic Alternating Copolymer ActivelyTargets 3D Multicellular Tumour Spheroids and Delivers the Hydrophobic Drug tothe Inner Core.Li X(1), Sambi M(2), DeCarlo A(3), Burov SV(4), Akasov R(5)(6), Markvicheva E(7),Malardier-Jugroot C(8), Szewczuk MR(9).Author information: (1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Sawyer Mod 5, Rm 5512, RoyalMilitary College of Canada, 11 General Crerar Crescent, Kingston, ON K7K 7B4,Canada. xiali.summer@gmail.com.(2)Department of Biomedical and Molecular Sciences, Queen's University, Kingston,18 Stuart St, Botterell Hall Rm 827, Kingston, ON K7L3N6, Canada.13ms84@queensu.ca.(3)Department of Biology, Queen's University, Kingston, ON K7L3N6, Canada.14ald4@queensu.ca.(4)Synthesis of Peptides and Polymer Microspheres Laboratory, Institute ofMacromolecular Compounds, Russian Academy of Sciences, St Petersburg 199004,Russia. burov@hq.macro.ru.(5)Department of Biomaterials and Biotechnologies, Shemyakin-OvchinnikovInstitute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 117997,Russia. zoolcat@yandex.ru.(6)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Sechenov First Moscow State MedicalUniversity, Trubetskaya Str. 8-2, Moscow 119991, Russia. zoolcat@yandex.ru.(7)Department of Biomaterials and Biotechnologies, Shemyakin-OvchinnikovInstitute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 117997,Russia. lemarkv@hotmail.com.(8)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Sawyer Mod 5, Rm 5512, RoyalMilitary College of Canada, 11 General Crerar Crescent, Kingston, ON K7K 7B4,Canada. Cecile.Malardier-Jugroot@rmc.ca.(9)Department of Biomedical and Molecular Sciences, Queen's University, Kingston,18 Stuart St, Botterell Hall Rm 827, Kingston, ON K7L3N6, Canada.szewczuk@queensu.ca.Engineering of a "smart" drug delivery system to specifically target tumour cellshas been at the forefront of cancer research, having been engineered for safer,more efficient and effective use of chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer.However, selective targeting and choosing the right cancer surface biomarker are critical for a targeted treatment to work. Currently, the available deliverysystems use a two-dimensional monolayer of cancer cells to test the efficacy ofthe drug delivery system, but designing a "smart" drug delivery system to bespecific for a tumour in vivo and to penetrate the inner core remains a majordesign challenge. These challenges can be overcome by using a study model thatintegrates the three-dimensional aspect of a tumour in a culture system. Here, wetested the efficacy of a functionalized folic acid-conjugated amphiphilicalternating copolymer poly(styrene-alt-maleic anhydride) (FA-DABA-SMA) via abiodegradable linker 2,4-diaminobutyric acid (DABA) to specifically target andpenetrate the inner core of three-dimensional avascular human pancreatic andbreast tumour spheroids in culture. The copolymer was quantitatively analyzed forits hydrophobic drug encapsulation efficiency using three different chemical drugstructures with different molecular weights. Their release profiles and tumourtargeting properties at various concentrations and pH environments were alsocharacterized. Using the anticancer drug curcumin and two standard clinicalchemotherapeutic hydrophobic drugs, paclitaxel and 5-fluorouracil, we tested the ability of FA-DABA-SMA nanoparticles to encapsulate the differently sized drugsand deliver them to kill monolayer pancreatic cancer cells using the WST-1 cellproliferation assay. The findings of this study revealed that the functionalized folic acid-conjugated amphiphilic alternating copolymer shows unique propertiesas an active "smart" tumor-targeting drug delivery system with the ability tointernalize hydrophobic drugs and release the chemotherapeutics for effectivekilling of cancer cells. The novelty of the study is the first to demonstrate afunctionalized "smart" drug delivery system encapsulated with a hydrophobic drug effectively targeting and penetrating the inner core of pancreatic and breastcancer spheroids and reducing their volumes in a dose- and time-dependent manner.DOI: 10.3390/nano8080588 PMID: 30072655 