100. J Med Radiat Sci. 2018 Aug 3. doi: 10.1002/jmrs.298. [Epub ahead of print]The impact of a radiologist-led workshop on MRI target volume delineation forradiotherapy.Kumar S(1)(2)(3), Holloway L(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Roach D(1)(2)(3), PogsonE(2)(3)(4)(5), Veera J(6), Batumalai V(1)(2)(3), Lim K(1)(2), DelaneyGP(1)(2)(3)(7), Lazarus E(8), Borok N(8), Moses D(9)(10), Jameson MG(1)(2)(3),Vinod S(1)(2).Author information: (1)South Western Sydney Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine, University of NewSouth Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.(2)Liverpool and Macarthur Cancer Therapy Centres, Liverpool Hospital, Liverpool,New South Wales, Australia.(3)Ingham Institute of Applied Medical Research, Liverpool, New South Wales,Australia.(4)Centre for Medical Radiation Physics, University of Wollongong, Sydney, NewSouth Wales, Australia.(5)Institute of Medical Physics, School of Physics, University of Sydney, Sydney,New South Wales, Australia.(6)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Bendigo, Victoria, Australia.(7)University of Western Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.(8)Department of Radiology, Liverpool Hospital, Liverpool, New South Wales,Australia.(9)Department of Radiology, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, New South Wales, Australia.(10)Prince of Wales Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine, University of New SouthWales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.INTRODUCTION: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is increasingly used for targetvolume delineation in radiotherapy due to its superior soft tissue visualisation compared to computed tomography (CT). The aim of this study was to assess theimpact of a radiologist-led workshop on inter-observer variability in volumedelineation on MRI.METHODS: Data from three separate studies evaluating the impact of MRI in lung,breast and cervix were collated. At pre-workshop evaluation, observers involvedin each clinical site were instructed to delineate specified volumes.Radiologists specialising in each cancer site conducted an interactive workshopon interpretation of images and anatomy for each clinical site. At post-workshop evaluation, observers repeated delineation a minimum of 2 weeks after theworkshops. Inter-observer variability was evaluated using dice similaritycoefficient (DSC) and volume similarity (VOLSIM) index comparing reference andobserver volumes.RESULTS: Post-workshop primary gross tumour volumes (GTV) were smaller thanpre-workshop volumes for lung with a mean percentage reduction of 10.4%. Breastclinical target volumes (CTV) were similar but seroma volumes were smallerpost-workshop on both supine (65% reduction) and prone MRI (73% reduction). Basedon DSC scores, improvement in inter-observer variability was seen for the seroma cavity volume on prone MRI with a reduction in DSC score range from 0.4-0.8 to0.7-0.9. Breast CTV demonstrated good inter-observer variability scores (mean DSC0.9) for both pre- and post-workshop. Post-workshop observer delineated cervixGTV was smaller than pre-workshop by 26.9%.CONCLUSION: A radiologist-led workshop did not significantly reduceinter-observer variability in volume delineation for the three clinical sites.However, some improvement was noted in delineation of breast CTV, seroma volumes and cervix GTV.© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Medical Radiation Sciences published by John Wiley& Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian Society of Medical Imaging andRadiation Therapy and New Zealand Institute of Medical Radiation Technology.DOI: 10.1002/jmrs.298 PMID: 30076690 