114. Oncologist. 2018 Aug 3. pii: theoncologist.2018-0154. doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0154. [Epub ahead of print]Impact of Genomic Assay Testing and Clinical Factors on Chemotherapy Use AfterImplementation of Standardized Testing Criteria.Natsuhara KH(1), Losk K(2), King TA(3), Lin NU(2), Camuso K(2), Golshan M(3),Pochebit S(4), Brock JE(4), Bunnell CA(2), Freedman RA(2).Author information: (1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USAkelseynatsuhara@post.harvard.edu.(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,Massachusetts, USA.(3)Surgical Oncology, Breast Oncology Program, Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women'sCancer Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.(4)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.BACKGROUND: For clinically appropriate early-stage breast cancer patients, reflexcriteria for Oncotype DX ordering ("the intervention") were implemented at ourcomprehensive cancer center, which reduced time-to-adjuvant chemotherapyinitiation. Our objective was to evaluate Oncotype DX ordering practices andchemotherapy use before and after implementation of the intervention.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined medical records for 498 patients who haddefinitive breast cancer surgery at our center. The post-intervention cohortconsisted of 232 consecutive patients who had Oncotype DX testing after reflexcriteria implementation. This group was compared to a retrospective cohort of 266patients who were diagnosed and treated prior to reflex criteria implementation, including patients who did and did not have Oncotype DX ordered. Factorsassociated with Oncotype DX ordering pre- and post-intervention were examined. Weused multivariate logistic regression to evaluate factors associated withchemotherapy receipt among patients with Oncotype DX testing.RESULTS: The distribution of Oncotype DX scores, the proportion of those havingOncotype DX testing (28.9% vs. 34.1%) and those receiving chemotherapy (14.3% vs.19.4%), did not significantly change between pre- and post-intervention groups.Age ≤65 years, stage II, grade 2, 1-3+ nodes, and tumor size >2 cm wereassociated with higher odds of Oncotype DX testing. Among patients havingOncotype DX testing, node status and Oncotype DX scores were significantlyassociated with chemotherapy receipt.CONCLUSION: Our criteria for reflex Oncotype DX ordering appropriately targetedpatients for whom Oncotype DX would typically be ordered by providers. Nosignificant change in the rate of Oncotype DX ordering or chemotherapy use wasobserved after reflex testing implementation.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: This study demonstrates that implementingmultidisciplinary consensus reflex criteria for Oncotype DX ordering maintains a stable Oncotype DX ordering rate and chemotherapy rate, mirroring what wasobserved in a specific clinical practice, while decreasing treatment delays dueto additional testing. These reflex criteria appropriately capture patients whowould likely have had Oncotype DX ordered by their providers and for whom thetest results are predicted to influence management. This intervention serves as apotential model for other large integrated, multidisciplinary oncology centers toinstitute processes targeting patient populations most likely to benefit fromgenomic assay testing, while mitigating treatment delays.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2018-0154 PMID: 30076279 