95. J Cell Physiol. 2018 Aug 4. doi: 10.1002/jcp.27029. [Epub ahead of print]Demethoxycurcumin: A naturally occurring curcumin analogue with antitumorproperties.Hatamipour M(1), Ramezani M(1), Tabassi SAS(2), Johnston TP(3), Ramezani M(4),Sahebkar A(5)(6)(7).Author information: (1)Nanotechnology Research Center, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences,Mashhad, Iran.(2)Pharmacological Research Center of Medicinal Plants, Mashhad University ofMedical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(3)Division of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Missouri-Kansas City,Kansas City, Missouri.(4)Immunology of Infectious Diseases Research Center, Rafsanjan University ofMedical Sciences, Rafsanjan, Iran.(5)Neurogenic Inflammation Research Center, Mashhad University of MedicalSciences, Mashhad, Iran.(6)Biotechnology Research Center, Pharmaceutical Technology Institute, MashhadUniversity of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(7)School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.The eradication of cancer in a patient remains an elusive challenge despiteadvances in early detection and diagnosis, chemo- and immunotherapy, pinpointradiation treatments, and expert surgical intervention. Although significantgains have been made in our understanding of cancer cell biology, a definite curefor most cancers does not exist at present. Thus, it is not surprising that theresearch and medical communities continue to explore the importance andtherapeutic potential of natural products in their multimodality cancer treatmentapproach. Curcuminoids found in turmeric are one such class of natural productsthat have been extensively investigated for their potential to halt theprogression of cancer cell proliferation and, more important, to stop metastasis from occurring. In this review, we examine one curcuminoid(demethoxycurcumin [DMC]) largely because of its increased stability and betteraqueous solubility at physiological pH, unlike the more well-known curcuminoid(curcumin), which is largely unabsorbed after oral ingestion. The present review will focus on the signaling pathways that DMC utilizes to modulate the growth,invasion, and metastasis of cancer cells in an effort to provide enhancedmechanistic insight into DMC's action as it pertains to brain, ovarian, breast,lung, skin, and prostate cancer. Additionally, this review will attempt toprovide an overview of DMC's mechanism of action by modulating apoptosis, cellcycle, angiogenesis, metastasis, and chemosensitivity. Lastly, it is hoped thatincreased understanding will be gained concerning DMC's interactive role withmicroRNA-551a, 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase, nuclearfactor-κB, Wnt inhibitory factor-1, and heat shock protein 70 to affect theprogression of cancer.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcp.27029 PMID: 30076727 