147. Radiographics. 2018 Aug 3:180013. doi: 10.1148/rg.2018180013. [Epub ahead ofprint]Male Breast Cancer in the Age of Genetic Testing: An Opportunity for EarlyDetection, Tailored Therapy, and Surveillance.Gao Y(1), Heller SL(1), Moy L(1).Author information: (1)From the Department of Radiology, New York University Langone Medical Center, 160 E 34th St, New York, NY 10016 (Y.G., S.L.H., L.M.); and the Center forAdvanced Imaging Innovation and Research, New York University School of Medicine,New York, NY (L.M.).In detection, treatment, and follow-up, male breast cancer has historicallylagged behind female breast cancer. On the whole, breast cancer is less commonamong men than among women, limiting utility of screening, yet the incidence ofmale breast cancer is rising, and there are men at high risk for breast cancer.While women at high risk for breast cancer are well characterized, with clearlyestablished guidelines for screening, supplemental screening, risk prevention,counseling, and advocacy, men at high risk for breast cancer are poorlyidentified and represent a blind spot in public health. Today, more standardized genetic counseling and wider availability of genetic testing are allowingidentification of high-risk male relatives of women with breast cancer, as wellas men with genetic mutations predisposing to breast cancer. This could provide anew opportunity to update our approach to male breast cancer. This articlereviews male breast cancer demographics, risk factors, tumor biology, andoncogenetics; recognizes how male breast cancer differs from its femalecounterpart; highlights its diagnostic challenges; discusses the implications of the widening clinical use of multigene panel testing; outlines current NationalComprehensive Cancer Network guidelines (version 1, 2018) for high-risk men; and explores the possible utility of targeted screening and surveillance.Understanding the current state of male breast cancer management and itschallenges is important to shape future considerations for care. Shifting theparadigm of male breast cancer detection toward targeted precision medicine maybe the answer to improving clinical outcomes of this uncommon disease. ©RSNA,2018.DOI: 10.1148/rg.2018180013 PMID: 30074858 