179. Curr Probl Diagn Radiol. 2018 May 22. pii: S0363-0188(18)30081-1. doi:10.1067/j.cpradiol.2018.05.001. [Epub ahead of print]Imaging of Intracystic Papillary Carcinoma.Speer ME(1), Adrada BE(2), Arribas EM(3), Hess KR(4), Middleton LP(5), WhitmanGJ(6).Author information: (1)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of DiagnosticRadiology, Division of Diagnostic Imaging, Houston, TX. Electronic address:mspeer@mdanderson.org.(2)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of DiagnosticRadiology, Division of Diagnostic Imaging, Houston, TX. Electronic address:Beatriz.Adrada@mdanderson.org.(3)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of DiagnosticRadiology, Division of Diagnostic Imaging, Houston, TX. Electronic address:earribas@mdanderson.org.(4)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department ofBiostatistics, Division of Science, Houston, TX. Electronic address:khess@mdanderson.org.(5)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of Pathology,Division of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Houston, TX. Electronic address:lpmiddleton@mdanderson.org.(6)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Department of DiagnosticRadiology, Division of Diagnostic Imaging, Houston, TX. Electronic address:gwhitman@mdanderson.org.OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical, imaging, and histopathologic findings ofintracystic papillary carcinoma (IPC) of the breast.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Following institutional review board approval, a database at a single institution was searched to identify cases of patients who received adiagnosis of IPC from 1999-2013 and who had undergone preoperative imaging withmammography, sonography, or MRI. The clinical, mammographic, sonographic, and MRIfeatures of IPC were compared and analyzed using the BI-RADS mammography,ultrasound, and MRI lexicons.RESULTS: The study sample included 40 patients, 36 females and 4 males. The most common clinical presentation was a palpable mass. Mammographic data was assessed in 31 patients. A tumor was mammographically occult in one patient. Thepredominant features were oval shape of 17 tumors (57%), obscured margins of 12(40%), and high density of 20 (67%). Ultrasound data of 37 patients revealed 20oval masses, 13 irregular masses, and 4 round masses. Fourteen complex solid and cystic masses were identified. One patient underwent MRI that showed a complex,enhancing mass with washout kinetics. Ultrasound guided biopsy was performed on33 of the 37 masses. Core needle biopsy and fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsywere most commonly performed on the solid components of the complex solid andcystic masses. IPC was diagnosed by stereotactic biopsy in 1 patient with asuspicious mass on mammography with no correlate on sonography and 6 patients hadsurgical excision without imaging-guided biopsy. Pathology showed in situ IPC in 31/40 tumors and 11 were solid and cystic complex masses on ultrasound. Pathologyrevealed invasive IPC in 9 tumors and five had an irregular mass on ultrasound.CONCLUSION: Our study reveals no specific imaging features to differentiate insitu vs invasive IPC. The most common ultrasound feature in biopsy proven IPC wasan oval mass, however, we identified that a complex solid and cystic mass is moreoften associated with the diagnosis of in situ IPC and an irregular mass is more often associated with the diagnosis of invasive IPC. Future studies with largercohorts are needed to further define the clinical and imaging features of thisrare malignancy.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1067/j.cpradiol.2018.05.001 PMID: 30072190 