197. Psychooncology. 2018 Aug 2. doi: 10.1002/pon.4849. [Epub ahead of print]A Randomized Phase II Trial of MOVING ON: An Intervention to Increase ExerciseOutcome Expectations among Breast Cancer Survivors.Hirschey R(1), Kimmick G(2), Hockenberry M(3), Shaw R(3), Pan W(3), Page C(4),Lipkus I(3).Author information: (1)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.(2)Duke University Medical Center, Duke Cancer Institute, Durham, NC.(3)Duke University School of Nursing, Durham, NC.(4)Duke Women's Cancer Care, Raleigh, NC.OBJECTIVE: Test theoretical intervention fidelity and feasibility of MOVING ON, aself-directed, home-based, randomized controlled trial to increase exerciseoutcome expectations (OEs) (what one expects to obtain or avoid as a result of a behavior or lack thereof), among breast cancer survivors.METHOD: Stage Ia - IIb survivors (n=60), were given the MOVING ON intervention orcontrol booklet. Data were collected through online surveys and an accelerometer at baseline, four, eight, and twelve weeks post-intervention. Fidelity wasmeasured by questions assessing participant perceptions of MOVING ON (score ≥2)and direction of intervention effects. Feasibility was measured by recruitmentrate (target of 60 participants in six months), retention (total attrition <17%), and acquisition of accelerometer data (% ≥subjective exercise dataobtained). Analyses consisted of descriptive statistics, mixed models and contentanalysis.RESULTS: Fidelity met a priori criteria (mean = 3.31, SD = 0.87). OEs increased0.01 points and weekly steps increased by 970 every four weeks in theintervention arm compared to the control arm. All effect sizes were small,ranging from 0.01 - 0.09. Target enrollment, achieved in seventeen weeks, met apriori feasibility criteria. Retention (66%) and accelerometer data acquisition60%, (compared to 73% of subjective exercise data) did not.CONCLUSION: MOVING ON influenced OEs as intended and was well-received byparticipants. A fully powered study, of this low-cost, easy to implementintervention, is warranted. Intervention and measurement strategies used inMOVING ON can be incorporated in any study targeting OEs as a mediator ofexercise or collecting exercise data with an accelerometer.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/pon.4849 PMID: 30071146 