93. Gastroenterology. 2018 Aug 1. pii: S0016-5085(18)34825-X. doi:10.1053/j.gastro.2018.07.037. [Epub ahead of print]Overdiagnosis in Colorectal Cancer Screening - Time to Acknowledge A Blind Spot.Kalager M(1), Wieszczy P(2), Lansdorp-Vogelaar I(3), Corley DA(4), BretthauerM(5), Kaminski MF(6).Author information: (1)Clinical Effectiveness Research group, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway;Department of Transplantation Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway;Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address:mkalager@hsph.harvard.edu.(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Clinical Oncology, Centre ofPostgraduate Medical Education, and Department of Cancer Prevention, the MariaSklodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw,Poland.(3)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, the Netherlands.(4)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente; Oakland, CA, USA.(5)Clinical Effectiveness Research group, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway;Department of Transplantation Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway;Frontier Science Foundation, Boston, MA, USA.(6)Clinical Effectiveness Research group, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway;Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Clinical Oncology, Centre ofPostgraduate Medical Education, and Department of Cancer Prevention, the MariaSklodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw,Poland; Department of Oncological Gastroenterology, the Maria Sklodowska-CurieMemorial Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.Overdiagnosis is recognized as a major harm of mammography screening for breastcancer and prostate cancer screening with prostate-specific-antigen (PSA).Colorectal cancer screening is being more broadly implemented in many countries, and screening rates are increasing steadily. Surprisingly, there is a strikingand almost complete lack of knowledge about overdiagnosis in colorectal cancerscreening. Overdiagnosis is not part of patient information material, hardlymentioned in guidelines, and not addressed in scientific or public debate. Thepresent paper proposes a semantic, conceptual and clinical framework foroverdiagnosis in CRC screening.Copyright © 2018 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2018.07.037 PMID: 30076834 