97. J Cell Physiol. 2018 Aug 4. doi: 10.1002/jcp.26910. [Epub ahead of print]Potential role of RAB6C-AS1 long noncoding RNA in different cancers.Salavaty A(1), Motlagh FM(2)(3), Barabadi M(2), Cheshomi H(2)(4), EsmatabadiMJD(5), Shahmoradi M(6), Soleimanpour-Lichaei HR(7).Author information: (1)Young Researchers and Elite Club, Isfahan (Khorasgan) Branch, Islamic AzadUniversity, Isfahan, Iran.(2)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Faculty of Medicine, SabzevarUniversity of Medical Sciences, Sabzevar, Iran.(3)Department of Medical Genetics, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran,Iran.(4)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Ferdowsi University of Mashhad,Mashhad, Iran.(5)Elites Advanced Research Center, Malek-Ashtar University of Technology,Tehran, Iran.(6)Division of Biotechnology, Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Facultyof Chemistry, University of Kashan, Kashan, Iran.(7)Department of Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine, National Institute ofGenetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran.BACKGROUND: Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) refer to a group of non-protein-coding RNAs that are usually more than 200 nucleotides. These long transcripts playsignificant roles in diverse cellular processes, mostly through epigeneticmechanisms. Thus, dysregulation of lncRNAs is associated with various diseases,especially cancer. This study aims to investigate the probable roles of RAB6C-AS1lncRNA in different cancers.METHODS: Real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactionwas applied for the analysis of RAB6C-AS1 lncRNA amplification in gastric cancer (GC) samples compared with normal ones. Also, several online and offline datasets and tools were used to analyze the relation between RAB6C-AS1 lncRNA anddifferent cancers.RESULTS: The end result of our analyses indicated that RAB6C-AS1 wasoverexpressed in 40% of the investigated GC specimens. Also, the resultsdemonstrated a true relation between RAB6C-AS1 overexpression and higher GC tumorgrades. However, bioinformatic analyses showed that while RAB6C-AS1 possiblyfunctions as an oncogene in some cancer types, including prostate and breastcancers, it might have a tumor suppressive function in some others includingbrain tumors.CONCLUSIONS: We found that RAB6C-AS1 lncRNA is mostly overexpressed in GC. Also, based on bioinformatic and systems biology analyses, RAB6C-AS1 might functioneither as an oncogenic factor or tumor suppressor in a tissue-specific manner.Thus, RAB6C-AS1 could be considered as a candidate biomarker for variousmalignancies, especially prostate and brain cancers. According to our results,RAB6C-AS1 has a notable prognostic value for patients with brain lower gradeglioma.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcp.26910 PMID: 30076712 