195. Cell Signal. 2018 Jul 31;51:99-109. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2018.07.010. [Epubahead of print]Advances in targeting epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathway inmammary cancer.Kyriakopoulou K(1), Kefali E(1), Piperigkou Z(2), Bassiony H(3), Karamanos NK(4).Author information: (1)Biochemistry, Biochemical Analysis & Matrix Pathobiology Res. Group,Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Patras, 26110,Greece.(2)Biochemistry, Biochemical Analysis & Matrix Pathobiology Res. Group,Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Patras, 26110,Greece; Foundation for Research and Technology-Hellas (FORTH), Institute ofChemical Engineering Sciences (ICE-HT), 26504 Patras, Greece.(3)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Cairo University, Egypt.(4)Biochemistry, Biochemical Analysis & Matrix Pathobiology Res. Group,Laboratory of Biochemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Patras, 26110,Greece; Foundation for Research and Technology-Hellas (FORTH), Institute ofChemical Engineering Sciences (ICE-HT), 26504 Patras, Greece. Electronic address:n.k.karamanos@upatras.gr.Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women worldwide. The role ofepidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) in many epithelial malignancies has been established, since it is dysregulated, overexpressed or mutated. Itsoverexpression has been associated with increased aggressiveness and metastaticpotential in breast cancer. The well-established interplay between EGFR signalingpathway and estrogen receptors (ERs) as well as major extracellular matrix (ECM) mediators is crucial for regulating basic functional properties of breast cancer cells, including migration, proliferation, adhesion and invasion. EGFR activationleads to endocytosis of the receptor with implications in the regulation ofdownstream signaling effectors, the modulation of autophagy and cell survival.Therefore, EGFR is considered as a promising therapeutic target in breast cancer.Several anti-EGFR therapies (i.e. monoclonal antibodies and tyrosine kinaseinhibitors) have been evaluated both in vitro and in vivo, making their way toclinical trials. However, the response rates of anti-EGFR therapies in theclinical trials is low mainly due to chemoresistance. Novel drug design,phytochemicals and microRNAs (miRNAs) are assessed as new therapeutic approaches against EGFR. The main goal of this review is to highlight the importance oftargeting EGFR signaling pathway in terms of its crosstalk with ERs, theinvolvement of ECM effectors and epigenetics. Moreover, recent insights into the design of specialized delivery systems contributing in the development of noveldiagnostic and therapeutic approaches in breast cancer are addressed.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2018.07.010 PMID: 30071291 