107. Support Care Cancer. 2018 Aug 3. doi: 10.1007/s00520-018-4359-y. [Epub ahead ofprint]The role of post-traumatic growth in promoting healthy behavior for couplescoping with cancer.Lim JW(1).Author information: (1)College of Social Welfare, Kangnam University, 40 Gangnam-ro, Giheung-gu,Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea. jungwonlim@kangnam.ac.kr.OBJECTIVE: Post-traumatic growth (PTG) could be beneficial to cancer survivorswho translate growth cognitions or emotional processes into positive behaviorchanges. The current study aimed to determine how post-traumatic growth (PTG) is associated with health behaviors in couples coping with cancer. Specifically,five hypothetical models based on PTG domains were created to better understandthe dyadic relationship between PTG domain and health behaviors.METHODS: A total of 91 breast, colorectal, and prostate cancer survivor-spousedyads were collected from the University Hospital Registry in Cleveland, Ohio.Standardized questions regarding PTG and health behaviors including eating andexercise were used. The actor-partner interdependence model with the use ofstructural equation modeling was utilized to analyze dyadic data.RESULTS: Findings indicated that survivor actor effects of PTG on healthbehaviors were observed for survivors only. In the spiritual change andappreciation of life PTG models, the survivor or the spouse partner effects were observed, respectively. The spiritual change model produced the best fit of allof the other models, indicating both a survivor actor effect and survivor partnereffect of spiritual change PTG on health behaviors. Thus, the relationshipsbetween PTG and health behavior at the dyadic level differed by five domains ofPTG.CONCLUSIONS: The findings reveal valuable insight into the nature ofrelationships between PTG and health behaviors at the individual and dyadiclevels. The changed philosophies of life for cancer survivor-spouse dyads canspecifically encourage healthy behaviors of couples coping with cancer.DOI: 10.1007/s00520-018-4359-y PMID: 30076484 