173. Oncologist. 2018 Aug 2. pii: theoncologist.2017-0553. doi:10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0553. [Epub ahead of print]Role of Family Obligation Stress on Ugandan Women's Participation in PreventiveBreast Health.Scheel JR(1)(2)(3)(4), Parker S(5), Hippe DS(2), Patrick DL(6), Nakigudde G(7),Anderson BO(8)(9)(3)(4), Gralow JR(8)(3)(10)(4), Thompson B(8), Molina Y(11).Author information: (1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,Seattle, Washington, USA jrs4yg@uw.edu.(2)Department of Radiology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.(3)Department of Global Health, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington,USA.(4)Seattle Cancer Care Alliance, Seattle, Washington, USA.(5)Department of Radiology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.(6)School of Public Health, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.(7)Uganda Women's Cancer Support Organization (UWOCASO), Kampala, Uganda.(8)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center,Seattle, Washington, USA.(9)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.(10)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Washington, Seattle,Washington, USA.(11)Community Health Sciences Division, School of Public Health, University ofIllinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA.BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to determine the role of familyobligation stress on Ugandan women's participation in preventive breast healththrough the receipt of breast cancer education and health check-ups.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A validated survey was conducted on a community sample of Ugandan women, providing a multi-item scale to assess preventivebreast-health-seeking behaviors and measure family obligation stress (FO; range6-18). Univariate and multivariate linear regression was used to assessassociations between sociodemographic factors and FO. Univariate and multivariatelinear regression (used in conjunction with the robust sandwich estimator forstandard errors) and probability differences (PDs) were used to evaluateassociations between preventive breast-health-seeking behaviors, sociodemographicfactors, and FO.RESULTS: A total of 401 Ugandan women ages 25-74 participated in the survey. Mosthad three or more children in the home (60%) and were employed full time (69%).Higher FO was associated with increasing number of children and/or adults in the household (p < .05), full-time employment (p < .001), and being single(p = .003). Women with higher FO were less likely to participate in breast cancereducation (PD = -0.02 per 1-point increase, p = .008) and preventive healthcheck-ups (PD = -0.02, p = .018), associations that persisted on multivariateanalysis controlling for sociodemographic factors.CONCLUSION: Ugandan women with high FO are less likely to participate inpreventive breast cancer detection efforts including breast cancer education and preventive health check-ups. Special efforts should be made to reach women withelevated FO, because it may be a risk factor for late-stage presentation amongwomen who develop breast cancer.IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: High family obligation stress (FO) significantlyreduces women's participation in preventive health check-ups and breast cancereducation. These findings support research in U.S. Latinas showing high FOnegatively affects women's health, suggesting that FO is an important factor inwomen's health-seeking behavior in other cultures. Addressing family obligationstress by including family members involved in decision-making is essential forimproving breast cancer outcomes in low- and middle-income countries, such asUganda.© AlphaMed Press 2018.DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2017-0553 PMID: 30072390 