190. Genes (Basel). 2018 Aug 1;9(8). pii: E395. doi: 10.3390/genes9080395.Mitochondrial DNA Haplogroups and Breast Cancer Risk Factors in the AvonLongitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC).Riley V(1), Erzurumluoglu AM(2)(3), Rodriguez S(4), Bonilla C(5)(6)(7).Author information: (1)MSc Genomic Medicine Programme, G7, College House, St Luke's Campus Universityof Exeter, Exeter, Devon EX2 4TE, UK. vivienne.riley@gmail.com.(2)Genetic Epidemiology Group, Department of Health Sciences, University ofLeicester, Leicester LE1 7RH, UK. ame26@leicester.ac.uk.(3)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, Population Health Sciences, Bristol MedicalSchool, University of Bristol, Oakfield House, Oakfield Grove, Bristol BS8 2BN,UK. ame26@leicester.ac.uk.(4)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, Population Health Sciences, Bristol MedicalSchool, University of Bristol, Oakfield House, Oakfield Grove, Bristol BS8 2BN,UK. Santi.Rodriguez@bristol.ac.uk.(5)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, Population Health Sciences, Bristol MedicalSchool, University of Bristol, Oakfield House, Oakfield Grove, Bristol BS8 2BN,UK. cxbonilla@usp.br.(6)Integrative Cancer Epidemiology Program, Population Health Sciences, BristolMedical School, University of Bristol, Oakfield House, Oakfield Grove, BristolBS8 2BN, UK. cxbonilla@usp.br.(7)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade deSão Paulo, São Paulo 01246-903, Brazil. cxbonilla@usp.br.The relationship between mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and breast cancer has beenfrequently examined, particularly in European populations. However, studiesreporting associations between mtDNA haplogroups and breast cancer risk have had a few shortcomings including small sample sizes, failure to account forpopulation stratification and performing inadequate statistical tests. In thisstudy we investigated the association of mtDNA haplogroups of European originwith several breast cancer risk factors in mothers and children of the AvonLongitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC), a birth cohort that enrolledover 14,000 pregnant women in the Southwest region of the UK. Risk factor datawere obtained from questionnaires, clinic visits and blood measurements.Information on over 40 independent breast cancer risk factor-related variableswas available for up to 7781 mothers and children with mtDNA haplogroup data inALSPAC. Linear and logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex andpopulation stratification principal components were evaluated. After correctionfor multiple testing we found no evidence of association of European mtDNAhaplogroups with any of the breast cancer risk factors analysed. MitochondrialDNA haplogroups are unlikely to underlie susceptibility to breast cancer thatoccurs via the risk factors examined in this study of a population of Europeanancestry.DOI: 10.3390/genes9080395 PMID: 30071701 