8. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2018 Aug;22(15):4768-4777. doi:10.26355/eurrev_201808_15610.Oncological safety of stromal vascular fraction enriched fat grafting intwo-stage breast reconstruction after nipple sparing mastectomy: long-termresults of a prospective study.Calabrese C(1), Kothari A, Badylak S, Di Taranto G, Marcasciano M, Sordi S,Barellini L, Lo Torto F, Tarallo M, Gaggelli I, D'Ermo G, Fausto A, Casella D,Ribuffo D.Author information: (1)Oncology Department, Oncologic and Reconstructive Surgery Breast Unit, CareggiUniversity Hospital, Florence, Italy. giuseppeditaranto89@gmail.com.OBJECTIVE: Autologous fat transfer (AFT) is commonly used to treat implantpalpability and prevent fibrosis and thinning in mastectomy skin flaps. A majorlimit to this procedure is volume retention over time, leading to theintroduction of fat enrichment with stromal vascular fraction (SVF+AFT).Oncological concerns have been raised over the injection of an increasedconcentration of progenitors cells (ASCs) in the SVF. The aim of the study is to evaluate the long-term cancer recurrence risk of SVF+AFT cases compared to AFT,in patients undergoing Nipple Sparing Mastectomy (NSM).PATIENTS AND METHODS: A prospective study was designed to compare three groups ofpatients undergoing NSM followed by SVF+AFT, AFT or none (control group), after atwo-stage breast reconstruction. Patients were strictly followed-up for at least 5-years from the second stage reconstructive procedure. Loco-regional andsystemic recurrence rate were evaluated over time as the primary outcome.Logistic regression was used to investigate which factors were associated withrecurrence events and independent variables of interest were: surgical technique,age above 50 years old, lympho-vascular invasion, oncological stage, adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy, adjuvant radiotherapy and adjuvant hormone therapy.RESULTS: 41 women were included in G1 (SVF+AFT), 64 in G2 (AFT), and 64 in G3(control group). Loco-regional recurrence rate was 2.4% for G1, 4.7% for G2, and 1.6% for G3. Systemic recurrence was 7.3%, 3.1%, and 3.1%, respectively. Amongthe variables included, there were no significant risk factors influencing arecurrence event, either loco-regional or systemic. In particular, SVF+AFT (G1)did not increase the oncological recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that both centrifuged and SVF-enhanced fat transferhave a similar safety level in comparison to patients who did not undergo fatgrafting in breast reconstruction after NSM.PMID: 30070312 