141. Eur J Pharmacol. 2018 Jul 31;835:61-74. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2018.07.057. [Epub ahead of print]Valproic acid as an adjunctive therapeutic agent for the treatment of breastcancer.Heers H(1), Stanislaw J(1), Harrelson J(1), Lee MW(2).Author information: (1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, School of Pharmacy, Pacific University,United States.(2)Department of Medical Education, Dell Medical School, University of Texas atAustin, United States; Live Strong Cancer Institutes, Dell Medical School,University of Texas at Austin, United States; Department of Oncology, DellMedical School, University of Texas at Austin, United States. Electronic address:Lee_Michael@austin.utexas.edu.Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related death among women. Asignificant challenge in treating breast cancer is the limited array oftherapeutic options and the rapid development of resistance to existing agents.Indeed, breast cancer patients, particularly those with hormone-receptor(HR)-positive breast cancer, initially respond to systemic treatment withcytotoxic, hormonal, and immunotherapeutic agents but frequently progress to amore advanced disease that is refractory to therapy. Thus, new agents are needed to improve the effectiveness of current agents, decrease the emergence ofresistance, and increase disease-free survival. To this end, numerous agents havebeen investigated for use in combination with existing therapies. Histonedeacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors are a class of potent epigenetic modulators thathave been investigated recently for their potential use in the treatment ofbreast cancer. In this review, we will discuss the underlying molecular rationalefor using HDAC inhibitors for the treatment of breast cancer. In particular, wewill focus our discussion on the FDA approved HDAC inhibitor valproic acid (VPA) which has been shown to alter proliferation, survival, cell migration, andhormone receptor expression of breast cancer cells in both the pre-clinical andclinical settings. We also discuss the promising pre-clinical data suggestingthat VPA can be repurposed as an adjunctive agent in combination with manycytotoxic, hormonal, and immunotherapeutic agents for the treatment of breastcancer. Finally, we will examine the current models used to study the actions of VPA on breast cancer alone and in tandem with other agents.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2018.07.057 PMID: 30075223 