99. J Cell Physiol. 2018 Aug 4. doi: 10.1002/jcp.27013. [Epub ahead of print]AhR ligand aminoflavone suppresses α6-integrin-Src-Akt signaling to attenuatetamoxifen resistance in breast cancer cells.Campbell PS(1), Mavingire N(1), Khan S(1), Rowland LK(1), Wooten JV(1),Opoku-Agyeman A(1), Guevara A(1), Soto U(1), Cavalli F(2), Loaiza-Pérez AI(2),Nagaraj G(3), Denham LJ(4), Adeoye O(5), Jenkins BD(6), Davis MB(6), SchiffR(7)(8), Brantley EJ(1)(5).Author information: (1)Department of Basic Sciences, Loma Linda University Health School of Medicine,Loma Linda, California.(2)Área de Investigaciónes, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Instituto de Oncología"Ángel H. Roffo," Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Autónoma de BuenosAires, Argentina.(3)Department of Medicine, Loma Linda University Health School of Medicine, Loma Linda, California.(4)Department of Pathology, Loma Linda University Health School of Medicine, LomaLinda, California.(5)Department of Pharmaceutical and Administrative Sciences, Loma LindaUniversity Health School of Pharmacy, Loma Linda, California.(6)Department of Public Health Sciences, Henry Ford Cancer Institute, Detroit,Michigan.(7)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Lester and Sue Smith BreastCenter, Dan L. Duncan Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine,Houston, Texas.(8)Department of Medicine, Lester and Sue Smith Breast Center, Dan L. DuncanComprehensive Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas.More than 40% of patients with luminal breast cancer treated with endocrinetherapy agent tamoxifen demonstrate resistance. Emerging evidence suggests tumor initiating cells (TICs) and aberrant activation of Src and Akt signaling drivetamoxifen resistance and relapse. We previously demonstrated that arylhydrocarbon receptor ligand aminoflavone (AF) inhibits the expression of TIC geneα6-integrin and disrupts mammospheres derived from tamoxifen-sensitive breastcancer cells. In the current study, we hypothesize that tamoxifen-resistant(TamR) cells exhibit higher levels of α6-integrin than tamoxifen-sensitive cells and that AF inhibits the growth of TamR cells by suppressing α6-integrin-Src-Akt signaling. In support of our hypothesis, TamR cells and associated mammosphereswere found to exhibit elevated α6-integrin expression compared with theirtamoxifen-sensitive counterparts. Furthermore, tumor sections from patients whorelapsed on tamoxifen showed enhanced α6-integrin expression. Gene expressionprofiling from the TCGA database further revealed that basal-like breast cancersamples, known to be largely unresponsive to tamoxifen, demonstrated higherα6-integrin levels than luminal breast cancer samples. Importantly, AF reducedTamR cell viability and disrupted TamR mammospheres while concomitantly reducing α6-integrin messenger RNA and protein levels. In addition, AF and smallinterfering RNA against α6-integrin blocked tamoxifen-stimulated proliferation ofTamR MCF-7 cells and further sensitized these cells to tamoxifen. Moreover, AFreduced Src and Akt signaling activation in TamR MCF-7 cells. Our findingssuggest elevated α6-integrin expression is associated with tamoxifen resistanceand AF suppresses α6-integrin-Src-Akt signaling activation to confer activityagainst TamR breast cancer.© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.DOI: 10.1002/jcp.27013 PMID: 30076704 