5. J Food Sci. 2018 Aug 2. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.14294. [Epub ahead of print]Enhancing the Cancer Cell Growth Inhibitory Effects of Table Grape Anthocyanins.Grimes KL(1), Stuart CM(1), McCarthy JJ(1), Kaur B(1), Cantu EJ(1), ForesterSC(1).Author information: (1)Dept. of Chemistry and Biochemistry, California State Univ., Bakersfield,Bakersfield, Calif., U.S.A.The risk for breast and colon cancer may be lowered in part by high intake offruits and vegetables. Fruits such as grapes are abundant in bioactive compounds such as anthocyanins. The potential anticancer activity of anthocyanins may belimited by their metabolism in the gut and liver. One metabolic transformation isdue to the enzyme catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), which methylatespolyphenols such as anthocyanins. Entacapone is a clinically used inhibitor ofCOMT, and has been shown to modulate the methylation of food-derived polyphenols.In this study, we compared the effect of entacapone on the cell viability ofcolon (Caco-2 and HT-29) and breast (MDA-MB-231) cancer cell lines treated withanthocyanins. Cells were treated with either cyanidin-3-glucoside,delphinidin-3-glucoside, or an anthocyanin-rich grape extract, in the absence or presence of entacapone. Cell viability was assessed using the thiazolyl bluetetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay. Entacapone in combination with the anthocyanins had a greater than additive effect on growth inhibition of the Caco-2 cells. Inthe MDA-MB-231 cell line, entacapone similarly enhanced the growth inhibitoryactivity of the anthocyanin extract. Entacapone also had antiproliferativeeffects when used as a single treatment. Total hydroperoxides was quantified inthe cell culture media. Greater concentrations of the treatments resulted inhigher levels of total hydroperoxides, indicating that oxidative stress may be animportant mechanism for growth inhibition. In conclusion, the antiproliferativeactivity of fruit-derived anthocyanins was improved in human cancer cell lines bythe clinically used drug entacapone. The efficacy and mechanisms ofentacapone/anthocyanin combinations should be carefully studied in vivo.PRACTICALAPPLICATION: Chemical components of grapes are good for our health and have been shown to lower risk for certain cancers. Their beneficial health effects couldalso be enhanced by consuming other molecules that improve their bioavailability.© 2018 Institute of Food Technologists®.DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.14294 PMID: 30070707 