48. Cell Biol Int. 2018 Aug 6. doi: 10.1002/cbin.11040. [Epub ahead of print]Heterogeneity of microvesicles from cancer cell lines under inflammatorystimulation with TNF-α.Gieseler F(1), Plattfaut C(1), Quecke T(1), Freund A(1), Ungefroren H(2), EnderF(1).Author information: (1)University of Luebeck, University Hospital and Medical School (UKSH), Section Experimental Oncology, Luebeck 23538, Germany.(2)Department of General and Thoracic Surgery, University HospitalSchleswig-Holstein, 24105 Kiel, Germany.Microvesicles (MVs) represent a subgroup of extracellular vesicles (EVs) emergingfrom various cells by blebbing of their outer membrane. Therefore, they sharefeatures such as membrane composition and antigenicity with their parental cells.Released by many immune and tumor cells, MVs act as intercellular messengers,account for horizontal gene transfer and can activate the coagulation system.With the aim to investigate their relevance for tumor cell biology, wecharacterized MVs released by human tumor cell lines of various origins in theabsence or presence of TNF-α. After stimulation, we used the combination of lowand high-speed centrifugation to enrich MVs from cell culture supernatants. Weanalyzed the presentation of phosphatidylserine (PS) and tissue factor (TF)activity on the cell surface and investigated their potency to induce tumor cell migration. In all tumor cell lines, TNF-α stimulation enhanced the release ofMVs. While the expression of PS was universally increased, an elevated activityof procoagulant TF could be detected on MVs from lung, pancreatic and coloncarcinoma, but not from breast and ovarian cancer cell lines. Functionally, TNF-αstimulation significantly increased the potency of MVs to induce tumor cellmigration. In conclusion, inflammatory conditions promote the release of MVs withincreased procoagulant activity from tumor cell lines in vitro. PS-containing andTF-expressing MVs may account for systemic activation of the coagulation systemas seen in cancer patients and, since they induce tumor cell migration, they may serve as biomarkers for tumor progression.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/cbin.11040 PMID: 30080276 