Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: HU, YM, FK, MS,TO, HK, NS, DN, and SA are employees of Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. NTU has aspeaker’s agreement with Kyowa Kirin Pharmaceutical Development, Inc. TF has noconflicts of interest. All preclinical tests were performed by Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd, and funding for the trial was provided by Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd.Medical writing assistance was funded by Kyowa Kirin Pharmaceutical Development, Inc.6. Front Immunol. 2018 Jul 23;9:1707. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01707. eCollection2018.T Follicular Helper-Like Cells in Inflamed Non-Lymphoid Tissues.Hutloff A(1).Author information: (1)Chronic Immune Reactions, German Rheumatism Research Centre Berlin (DRFZ), aLeibniz Institute, Berlin, Germany.T and B cell cooperation normally takes place in secondary lymphoid organs (SLO).However, both cell types are also frequently found in inflamed non-lymphoidtissues. Under certain conditions, these infiltrates develop into ectopiclymphoid structures, also known as tertiary lymphoid tissues, which structurally and functionally fully resemble germinal centers (GCs) in SLO. However, tertiary lymphoid tissue is uncommon in most human autoimmune conditions; instead,relatively unstructured T and B cell infiltrates are found. Recent studies havedemonstrated that active T and B cell cooperation can also take place in suchunstructured aggregates. The infiltrating cells contain a population of Tfollicular helper (Tfh)-like cells (also designated "peripheral T helper cells") lacking prototypic Tfh markers like CXCR5 and Bcl-6 but nevertheless expressinghigh levels of molecules important for B cell help like IL-21 and CD40L.Moreover, Tfh-like cells isolated from inflamed tissues can drive thedifferentiation of B cells into antibody-secreting cells in vitro. These findingsare not restricted to experimental animal models but have been reproduced inrheumatoid arthritis and breast cancer patients. At this point, it is unclearwhether T and B cell cooperation outside the ordered structure of the GC fullymirrors the reactions in SLO. However, Tfh-like cells in inflamed tissues arecertainly important for the local differentiation of B cells intoantibody-secreting cells, and should be considered as an important target for thetreatment of autoimmune diseases.DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01707 PMCID: PMC6064731PMID: 30083164 