Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competinginterests exist.45. PLoS Biol. 2018 Aug 6;16(8):e2006134. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2006134. [Epubahead of print]KDM5 histone demethylases repress immune response via suppression of STING.Wu L(1), Cao J(1), Cai WL(1), Lang SM(1), Horton JR(2), Jansen DJ(3), Liu ZZ(1), Chen JF(1), Zhang M(1), Mott BT(3), Pohida K(3), Rai G(3), Kales SC(3), HendersonMJ(3), Hu X(3), Jadhav A(3), Maloney DJ(3), Simeonov A(3), Zhu S(4), IwasakiA(5)(6), Hall MD(3), Cheng X(2), Shadel GS(1)(7)(8), Yan Q(1).Author information: (1)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut,United States of America.(2)Department of Molecular and Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas MDAnderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, United States of America.(3)National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, National Institutes ofHealth, Rockville, Maryland, United States of America.(4)Institute of Immunology and the CAS Key Laboratory of Innate Immunity andChronic Disease, School of Life Sciences and Medical Center, University ofScience and Technology of China, Hefei, China.(5)Department of Immunobiology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, United States of America.(6)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland, United States ofAmerica.(7)Department of Genetics, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut,United States of America.(8)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California, United States of America.Cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) synthase (cGAS) stimulator of interferon genes (STING)senses pathogen-derived or abnormal self-DNA in the cytosol and triggers aninnate immune defense against microbial infection and cancer. STING agonistsinduce both innate and adaptive immune responses and are a new class of cancerimmunotherapy agents tested in multiple clinical trials. However, STING iscommonly silenced in cancer cells via unclear mechanisms, limiting theapplication of these agonists. Here, we report that the expression of STING isepigenetically suppressed by the histone H3K4 lysine demethylases KDM5B and KDM5Cand is activated by the opposing H3K4 methyltransferases. The induction of STING expression by KDM5 blockade triggered a robust interferon response in a cytosolicDNA-dependent manner in breast cancer cells. This response resulted in resistanceto infection by DNA and RNA viruses. In human tumors, KDM5B expression isinversely associated with STING expression in multiple cancer types, with thelevel of intratumoral CD8+ T cells, and with patient survival in cancers with ahigh level of cytosolic DNA, such as human papilloma virus (HPV)-positive headand neck cancer. These results demonstrate a novel epigenetic regulatory pathway of immune response and suggest that KDM5 demethylases are potential targets forantipathogen treatment and anticancer immunotherapy.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.2006134 PMID: 30080846 