Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist.146. J Pharmacopuncture. 2017 Sep;20(3):158-172. doi: 10.3831/KPI.2017.20.019. Epub2017 Sep 30.Review on the Potential Therapeutic Roles of Nigella sativa in the Treatment ofPatients with Cancer: Involvement of Apoptosis: - Black cumin and cancer.Mollazadeh H(1), Afshari AR(2), Hosseinzadeh H(3).Author information: (1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, School of Medicine, North Khorasan University of Medical Sciences, Bojnurd, Iran.(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.(3)Pharmaceutical Research Center, Department of Pharmacodynamics and Toxicology,School of Pharmacy, Mashhad University of Medical Sciences, Mashhad, Iran.Nigella sativa (N. sativa, family Ranunculaceae) is a medicinal plant that hasbeen widely used for centuries throughout the world as a natural remedy. A widerange of chemical compounds found in N. sativa expresses its vast therapeuticeffects. Thymoquinone (TQ) is the main component (up to 50%) in the essential oilof N. sativa. Also, pinene (up to 15%), p-cymene (40%), thymohydroquinone (THQ), thymol (THY), and dithymoquinone (DTQ) are other pharmacologically activecompounds of its oil. Other terpenoid compounds, such as carvacrol, carvone,4-terpineol, limonenes, and citronellol, are also found in small quantities inits oil. The main pharmacological characteristics of this plant are immune systemstimulatory, anti-inflammatory, hypotensive, hepatoprotective, antioxidant,anti-cancer, hypoglycemic, anti-tussive, milk production, uricosuric, choleretic,anti-fertility, and spasmolytic properties. In this regard, we have searched the scientific databases PubMed, Web of Science, and Google Scholar with keywords of N. sativa, anti-cancer, apoptotic effect, antitumor, antioxidant, and malignancy over the period from 2000 to 2017. The effectiveness of N. sativa against cancer in the blood system, kidneys, lungs, prostate, liver, and breast and on manymalignant cell lines has been shown in many studies, but the molecular mechanismsbehind that anti-cancer role are still not clearly understood. From among themany effects of N. sativa, including its anti-proliferative effect, cell cyclearrest, apoptosis induction, ROS generation, anti-metastasis/anti-angiogenesiseffects, Akt pathway control, modulation of multiple molecular targets, includingp53, p73, STAT-3, PTEN, and PPAR-γ, and activation of caspases, the mainsuggestive anti-cancer mechanisms of N. sativa are its free radical scavengeractivity and the preservation of various anti-oxidant enzyme activities, such as glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and glutathione-S-transferase. In this review, we highlight the molecular mechanisms of apoptosis and the anti-cancer effects ofN. sativa, with a focus on its molecular targets in apoptosis pathways.DOI: 10.3831/KPI.2017.20.019 PMCID: PMC5633668PMID: 30087792 