182. J Glob Oncol. 2018 Jul;(4):1-12. doi: 10.1200/JGO.18.00015.Assessment and Improvement Strategies for a Breast Cancer Early Detection Programin Rural South Africa.Hadley M(1), Mullen LA(1), Dickerson L(1), Harvey SC(1).Author information: (1)Megan Hadley and Lindsay Dickerson, The Johns Hopkins University School ofMedicine; and Lisa A. Mullen and Susan C. Harvey, Johns Hopkins Medicine,Baltimore, MD.Purpose To assess and develop solutions for an ultrasound-based breast cancerearly detection program in rural South Africa 1 year after implementation.Methods A WHO-endorsed RAD-AID Radiology Readiness Assessment was used toevaluate clinic resources. In addition, 5 weeks of observation identifiedresource deficiencies and reviewed existing documentation methods. On the basisof stakeholders' input and the BI-RADS, we developed new documentation systems.Training was followed by a survey that assessed feasibility and provideracceptance. Results Resource limitations included lack of computers,unpredictable electrical supply, and inconsistent Internet. The assessmentrevealed incomplete documentation of breast clinical examinations and history,breast lesions, and follow-up. Furthermore, limitations negatively affectedcommunication among providers. Three solutions were developed: a paper patienthistory form, a paper clinical findings form, and a computerized patient-trackingdata base compliant with BI-RADS. Three nurses, three nursing assistants, and onecounselor completed the survey. Seventy-one percent indicated positive generalattitudes, and 100% agreed that the documentation system is easy and useful andimproves overall quality of care, follow-up, decision making; access to clinical information; and communication between clinicians and patients. Five of the sevenproviders reported that the system increased visit time, but three of those five believed that the process was valuable. Conclusion Implementation of a breastcancer early detection program in resource-limited regions is challenging, andcontinual assessment is essential. As a result of identified needs, we developed a documentation system that was broadly accepted. Future steps should focus onincreasing efficiency, evaluation of provider attitudes long term, and clinicaleffect.DOI: 10.1200/JGO.18.00015 PMID: 30085890 