183. J Glob Oncol. 2018 Jul;(4):1-16. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00207.Are Global Breast Cancer Incidence and Mortality Patterns Related toCountry-Specific Economic Development and Prevention Strategies?Bellanger M(1), Zeinomar N(1), Tehranifar P(1), Terry MB(1).Author information: (1)Martine Bellanger, Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sante Publique - UniversitySorbonne Paris Cite, Paris, France; Nur Zeinomar, Prisa Tehranifar, and Mary BethTerry, Columbia University; Parisa Tehranifar and Mary Beth Terry, Herbert IrvingComprehensive Cancer Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY;and Martine Bellanger, Nur Zeinomar, Parisa Tehranifar, and Mary Beth Terry,International Breast Cancer and Nutrition Project, Lafayette, IN.Purpose There remains considerable international variation in breast cancerincidence and mortality, but a comprehensive examination of rates by countrylevel economic, development and cancer prevention policies is lacking. Materials and Methods We compared GLOBOCAN 2012 age-specific breast cancer incidence andmortality rates for 177 countries by using development and policy data available from the WHO Global Cancer Country Profiles data base. We classified each countryon the basis of gross national income per capita from the World DevelopmentIndicators data base, as follows: low-income country (LIC), lower-middle-incomecountry (LMIC), upper-middle-income country (UMIC), and high-income country(HIC). Results There were 1,651,326 breast cancer cases and 516,868 breast cancerdeaths estimated in 2012. Approximately three quarters of all breast cancer casesand 60% of the breast cancer deaths were in women from HICs and UMICs. Age andcountry-level income explained approximately 60% of the international variationin breast cancer incidence and mortality in women of all ages (adjusted R2 = 58% and 60%, respectively). Economic development indicators additionally increasedthe overall variation in incidence and mortality by approximately 5%. In womenyounger than age 50 years, country-level income explained 68% of incidence and59% of mortality; economic development indicators additionally increased thispercentage by approximately 4%. Country-level cancer prevention policy indicatorscontributed little to explanation of the overall variation in incidence andmortality after analysis accounted for age and country-level income; however, an overall resource summary index of greater economic development and cancerprevention policies was related to lower mortality within each major incomelevel. Conclusion Although breast cancer incidence increases with higher incomelevels in all ages, women in the poorest countries bear a relatively higherburden of breast cancer mortality, particularly women younger than age 50 years.DOI: 10.1200/JGO.17.00207 PMID: 30085889 