186. J Glob Oncol. 2018 Jul;(4):1-20. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00116.Panoptic Overview of Triple-Negative Breast Cancer in Nigeria: Current Challengesand Promising Global Initiatives.Wright N(1), Rida P(1), Rakha E(1), Agboola A(1), Aneja R(1).Author information: (1)Nikita Wright, Padmashree Rida, Emad Rakha, Ayodeji Agboola, and Ritu Aneja,Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA; Emad Rakha, University of Nottingham andNottingham University Hospitals National Health Service Trust, Nottingham, UnitedKingdom; and Ayodeji Agboola, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Sagamu, Nigeria.Purpose Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most deadly form of breastcancer (BC) today. TNBC treatment is fraught with challenges because of theextensive interpatient heterogeneity in clinical behavior and scarcity ofstratifying biomarkers and actionable targets. Women of African ancestry face adisproportionate burden resulting from this disease, which affects them earlierand more aggressively and has a higher propensity to spread and resistconventional treatments. A much higher proportion of Nigerian patients with BChave TNBC compared with patients with BC in the United States and Europe. MethodsThis article spotlights Nigeria as an example of a nation wherein genetic andnongenetic spheres of influence intersect to affect the prevalence of thisdisease, the scale of its challenge, and its toll. Results Studies haveilluminated the inherently different tumor biology of Nigerian TNBCs, which show distinct genetic variants and gene expression patterns compared with European or European-American TNBCs. Parallels are apparent between TNBC phenotypes amongAfrican Americans and Nigerians, implicating the common thread of shared genetic ancestry between these populations. Reproductive, lifestyle, socioeconomic, andcultural factors also shape TNBC outcomes in Nigeria, as do resource constraints in Nigerian health care and research sectors. Conclusion Increasing ourunderstanding of how these factors contribute to poorer outcomes among Nigerianwomen may uncover valuable insights and strategies in alleviating the TNBC burdenin many countries of the world and help reduce the racial disparity in BC-relatedoutcomes here in the United States. Importantly, this review also highlightscollaborative global and local initiatives that converge expertise and resources to advance research on effective management of TNBC in diverse populations.DOI: 10.1200/JGO.17.00116 PMID: 30085829 