144. ACS Omega. 2018 Jul 31;3(7):8317-8328. doi: 10.1021/acsomega.7b01347. Epub 2018Jul 26.Drug-Carrying Capacity and Anticancer Effect of the Folic Acid- andBerberine-Loaded Silver Nanomaterial To Regulate the AKT-ERK Pathway in BreastCancer.Bhanumathi R(1), Manivannan M(1), Thangaraj R(1), Kannan S(1).Author information: (1)Division of Cancer Nanomedicine, Department of Zoology, Periyar University,Salem 636 011, Tamil Nadu, India.Currently, in clinics, breast cancer is treated with free chemotherapeutic drugs,as a result there is not much therapeutic effect in treated models, leading tosubstantial systemic toxicity. To overcome these critical problems for theprimary outcome, we developed the formulated nanomaterial (FA-PEG@BBR-AgNPs)aimed to specifically target cancer cells via nanoscopic-based drug delivery for getting better therapeutic effectiveness. In the present study, an isoquinolinealkaloid, berberine (BBR), was chosen as a cancer therapeutic agent, encapsulatedon citrate-capped silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) through electrostatic interactions(BBR-AgNPs). Then, BBR-AgNPs were conjugated with polyethyleneglycol-functionalized folic acid (FA-PEG) via hydrogen bonding interactions(FA-PEG@BBR-AgNPs). The transmission electron microscopy study shows the cellularinvasion of the formulated FA-PEG@BBR-AgNPs, indicating the accretion of thenanomaterial at the tumor-specific site. Hence, FA conjugated with thenanomaterial suggests an efficient release of BBR molecules into the specificcancer site. Consequently, the results showed an increase in apoptotic induction via reactive oxygen species and condensed nuclei in cancer cells. Moreover, thewestern blotting analysis shows reduced/increased expression of PI3K, AKT, Ras,Raf, ERK, VEGF, HIF1α, Bcl-2, Bax, cytochrome c, caspase-9, and caspase-3,thereby enhancing apoptosis. Likewise, the in vivo antitumor efficiency ofFA-PEG@BBR-AgNPs showed a significant restraint of tumor progression, andhistopathological observations of lung, liver, kidney, heart, and brain tissuesproved lesser toxicity of FA-PEG@BBR-AgNPs. Thus, the successfully formulatednanomaterial can serve as a potential drug-discharging vehicle to combat cancercells by a molecular-based targeting approach.DOI: 10.1021/acsomega.7b01347 PMCID: PMC6072244PMID: 30087941 