Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financialinterest.145. J Endourol Case Rep. 2018 Aug 1;4(1):120-123. doi: 10.1089/cren.2018.0049.eCollection 2018.The Use of CT-Guided Marking for the Laparoscopic Resection of a SolitaryRetroperitoneal Metastasis of Colon Cancer.Ueki H(1), Fujimoto T(1), Okuno M(1), Kusuda Y(1), Taguchi I(1), Itou Y(2),Kiyonaka S(3), Kawabata G(1).Author information: (1)Division of Urology, Kansai Rosai Hospital, Amagasaki, Japan.(2)Division of Radiology, Kansai Rosai Hospital, Amagasaki, Japan.(3)Division of Anesthesia, Kansai Rosai Hospital, Amagasaki, Japan.Background: CT-guided marking technique is rarely used in abdominal or urologicsurgery. We developed and performed a marking technique for a small tumor,undetectable by ultrasound, using CT guidance before laparoscopic resection ofthe tumor. Case Presentation: A 73-year-old woman with a history of breast cancerunderwent right colectomy with D3 lymph node dissection for ascending coloncancer. Five years after the operation, a solitary tumor was found in the rightpararenal region of the retroperitoneal space on enhanced abdominal CT. The tumorwas 20 mm in diameter and undetectable by ultrasound, so we performed a markingtechnique using CT guidance before the operation. Placing the patient in a prone position on the CT table, a 22-gauge needle was inserted into the Gerota's fasciapercutaneously and a mixed fluid containing India ink and Iopamidol was injected para to the tumor by the radiologist. During the surgery, the marker was clearly identified and the cutting line was determined to ensure a sufficient surgicalmargin. The tumor was laparoscopically resected as planned. The histopathologicdiagnosis was adenocarcinoma, compatible with metastasis of colon cancer. Thepostoperative course was uneventful and the patient remained free of disease at10 months after surgery. Conclusion: When resecting small tumors or tumors withan irregular margin, a marking technique is conducted before the surgery. But,preoperative CT-guided marking has not been applied generally for resection ofintraabdominal lesion yet. CT-guided marking can be effective when performingminimally invasive and curable surgery on small tumors. This is the first report of an effective CT-guided marking before retroperitoneal laparoscopictumorectomy. We believe that this technique provides an important therapeuticoption for small tumors that may be undetectable by ultrasound.DOI: 10.1089/cren.2018.0049 PMCID: PMC6080126PMID: 30087907 