190. J Glob Oncol. 2018 Jul;(4):1-12. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00198.Adequacy of Pathologic Reports of Invasive Breast Cancer From MastectomySpecimens at Tikur Anbessa Specialized Hospital Oncology Center in Ethiopia.Yesufe AA(1), Assefa M(1), Bekele A(1), Ergete W(1), Aynalem A(1), WondemagegnehuT(1), Tausjø J(1), Assefa Tessema G(1), Kantelhardt EJ(1), Gansler T(1), JemalA(1).Author information: (1)Abdu A. Yesufe, Mathewos Assefa, Abebe Bekele, Wondwossen Ergete, AbrehaAynalem, and Tigeneh Wondemagegnehu, Addis Ababa University, Tikur AnbessaSpecialized Hospital, Addis Ababa; Gizachew Assefa Tessema, University of Gondar,Gondar, Ethiopia; Johan Tausjø, Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo University, Oslo,Norway; Eva Johanna Kantelhardt, Institute of Medical Epidemiology,Martin-Luther-University, Halle an der Saale, Germany; and Ted Gansler andAhmedin Jemal, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA.Purpose Although information from pathology reports is essential to the care ofindividuals with cancer and to population-level cancer control, no systematicevidence exists regarding the adequacy of breast pathology reporting in Ethiopia.This study audited pathology reports of mastectomy specimens from patientsevaluated at the Tikur Anbessa Specialized Hospital Oncology Center in AddisAbaba, Ethiopia. Methods Mastectomy pathology reports from February 2014 through January 2016 were assessed for gross and microscopic information considered bythe Breast Cancer Initiative 2.5 (BCI 2.5; formerly the Breast Health GlobalInitiative) guideline to be necessary for care of patients with breast cancerstratified according to basic, limited, and enhanced resource settings. ResultsFewer than two thirds (61.6%) of the 417 reports we reviewed included all four ofthe BCI 2.5 basic pathology data elements we could evaluate with available data(tumor category, lymph node category, histologic type, and histologic grade).Only 1.0% of reports included all three pathology data elements recommended forlimited resource settings (estrogen receptor status, margin status, andlymphovascular invasion). Several elements were significantly more likely to benoted in reports from nonpublic hospitals than from public hospitals. Althoughonly three of 417 reports included checklists or templates, all three of thesereports included all of the basic pathology information, and they all included atleast two of the three limited pathology elements not already on the basic list. Conclusion More than one third (38.4%) of mastectomy pathology reports did notmeet BCI 2.5 standards for basic resource settings. Quality measurement andimprovement programs and capacity-building interventions by national pathologyand oncology organizations, collaboration with medical and public healthorganizations in neighboring countries, adoption of synoptic reporting templates,use of electronic pathology reporting, and histotechnology and histopathologytraining collaborations with laboratories in high-resource regions arerecommended.DOI: 10.1200/JGO.17.00198 PMID: 30084708 