Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declaredthat no competing interest exists.4. Theranostics. 2018 Jun 12;8(14):3722-3736. doi: 10.7150/thno.25434. eCollection2018.Suspension state promotes metastasis of breast cancer cells by up-regulatingcyclooxygenase-2.Zhang X(1)(2), Yang L(1)(2), Chien S(3), Lv Y(1)(2).Author information: (1)Key Laboratory of Biorheological Science and Technology (ChongqingUniversity), Ministry of Education, Bioengineering College, Chongqing University,Chongqing 400044, P. R. China.(2)Mechanobiology and Regenerative Medicine Laboratory, Bioengineering College,Chongqing University, Chongqing 400044, P. R. China.(3)Departments of Bioengineering, Institute of Engineering in Medicine,University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.Hematogenous metastasis requires tumor cells to detach from primary tumor intoblood/lymphatic circulation and extravasate. Tumor cells in the blood circulationsystem, named circulating tumor cells (CTCs), are in a suspension state, withunique cytoskeletal structure and molecular phenotype different from primarytumor cells. The aim of this study is to assess the impact of suspension state onthe metastatic potential of breast cancer cells (BCCs) and study its underlyingmechanism. Methods: BCCs were cultured on low-adhesion plates to mimic thesuspension state. Conventional adherent culture BCCs were used as the control.This study examined the metastatic potential of adherent and suspension BCCs invitro and in vivo. RNA sequencing analysis, siRNA, and inhibitors were used todetermine the underlying molecular mechanism. Results: The suspension statesignificantly increased the metastatic potential of BCCs, but slightly suppressedtheir tumor growth. RNA sequencing analysis revealed that the suspension stateresulted in an acquisition of unique molecular signature enriched inpro-metastatic and tumor-suppressive genes. Specifically,prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2), which encodes proteincyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), was identified as a highly up-regulated gene insuspension state compared with adherent cultured BCCs. Inhibition of thecatalytic activity of COX-2 by celecoxib markedly suppressed suspension-increasedmigration and invasion of BCCs. In addition, knock-down of COX-2 by siRNA reducedthe experimental lung metastasis formation of suspension cultured BCCs, which wasassociated with a remarkable decrease in retention and survival of BCCs in lungs of mice in the early stage of metastasis. Activation of Ca2+/calcineurin(CaN)/nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) pathway and disruption ofcytoskeleton contributed to the COX-2 up-expression by suspension state.Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that suspension state plays an importantrole in the metastatic potential of CTCs, and suggest a potential application of COX-2 inhibitor for anti-metastasis.DOI: 10.7150/thno.25434 PMCID: PMC6071525PMID: 30083255 