126. Anal Chem. 2018 Aug 8. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b02585. [Epub ahead of print]Chip-Assisted Single-Cell Biomarker Profiling of Heterogeneous Circulating Tumor Cells Using Multifunctional Nanospheres.Wu LL, Tang M, Zhang ZL, Qi CB, Hu J, Ma XY, Pang DW.Profiling the heterogeneous phenotypes of single circulating tumor cells (CTCs)from patients is a very challenging task which paves new ways for cancermanagement, especially personalized anti-cancer therapy. Herein, we propose achip-assisted multifunctional nanosphere system for efficient and reliablebiomarker phenotype analysis of single heterogeneous CTCs. Redfluorescent-magnetic-biotargeting multifunctional nanospheres and greenfluorescent-biotargeting nanospheres targeting to two kinds of CTC biomarkers,are used for convenient dual-fluorescence labeling of CTCs along with magnetictags. By integrating magnetic enrichment with size-selective single-cell trappingmicrofluidic chip (SCT-chip), over 90% of CTCs, even as low as 10 CTCs per mL of blood, can be individually trapped at highly ordered micropillars, spatiallyseparated from the minimum residual blood cells. Such single CTCs offer easyreadout fluorescence signals, facilitating efficient identification and reliable phenotype analysis in accordance with their biomarker expressions. Therefore, thephenotypes of breast tumor cells at the expression level of human epidermalgrowth factor receptor-2, important targets of clinical anti-cancer drugs, areaccurately assessed, and above 82% of them can be classified into correspondingcell subpopulations. Furthermore, this system demonstrates successful detectionand subpopulation analysis of heterogeneous CTCs from 7 breast cancer patients,which provides a promising new means for single-cell profiling of CTC biomarkerphenotypes and guiding personalized anti-cancer therapy. expressions. Therefore, the phenotypes of breast tumor cells at the expression level of human epidermalgrowth factor receptor-2, important targets of clinical anti-cancer drugs, areaccurately assessed, and above 82% of them can be classified into correspondingcell subpopulations. Furthermore, this system demonstrates successful detectionand subpopulation analysis of heterogeneous CTCs from 7 breast cancer patients,providing a promising new means for single-cell profiling of CTC biomarkerphenotypes and guiding personalized anti-cancer therapy.DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b02585 PMID: 30089203 