44. PLoS One. 2018 Aug 6;13(8):e0201846. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201846.eCollection 2018.Impact of combining the progesterone receptor and preoperative endocrineprognostic index (PEPI) as a prognostic factor after neoadjuvant endocrinetherapy using aromatase inhibitors in postmenopausal ER positive and HER2negative breast cancer.Kurozumi S(1)(2), Matsumoto H(1), Inoue K(3), Tozuka K(1), Hayashi Y(1), KurosumiM(4), Oyama T(5), Fujii T(2), Horiguchi J(6), Kuwano H(2).Author information: (1)Division of Breast Surgery, Saitama Cancer Center, Saitama, Japan.(2)Department of General Surgical Science, Gunma University Graduate School ofMedicine, Gunma, Japan.(3)Division of Breast Oncology, Saitama Cancer Center, Saitama, Japan.(4)Department of Pathology, Saitama Cancer Center, Saitama, Japan.(5)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Gunma University Graduate School ofMedicine, Gunma, Japan.(6)Department of Breast Surgery, International University of Health and Welfare, Chiba, Japan.The preoperative endocrine prognostic index (PEPI) predicts survival afterneoadjuvant endocrine therapy (NAE) using aromatase inhibitors (AIs) for womenwith postmenopausal estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer irrespective ofthe human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status. Although theprogesterone receptor (PgR) is also a prognostic factor for ER-positive breastcancer, the PgR status was not considered a prognostic factor in the originalPEPI scoring system. In this study, we investigated the utility of a modifiedPEPI including the PgR status (PEPI-P) as a prognostic factor after NAE forpostmenopausal patients with ER-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer. Weenrolled 107 patients with invasive ER-positive and HER2-negative breast cancertreated with exemestane for ≥4 months as NAE. We initially assessed PEPI andcompared survival between the groups. Additionally, we obtained an effectivecutoff for PgR through survival analysis. Then, we assessed the survivalsignificance of PEPI-P. A PgR staining rate of 50% was the most significantcutoff for predicting recurrence-free survival (RFS) and cancer-specific survival(CSS). PEPI was a significant prognostic factor; moreover, PEPI-P was the mostsignificant prognostic indicator for RFS and CSS. PEPI-P is a potent prognosticindicator of survival after NAE using AIs for postmenopausal patients withER-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer. This modified PEPI may be useful fortherapeutic decision-making regarding postmenopausal ER-positive andHER2-negative breast cancer after NAE.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201846 PMID: 30080878 