Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare thatthey have no conflicts of interest.147. J Cancer. 2018 Jun 23;9(15):2589-2602. doi: 10.7150/jca.23023. eCollection 2018.Subtyping Of Triple Negative Breast Carcinoma On The Basis Of RTK Expression.Hessel H(1), Poignée-Heger M(2), Lohmann S(2), Hirscher B(3), Herold A(2),Assmann G(1)(4), Budczies J(5), Sotlar K(1)(6), Kirchner T(1).Author information: (1)Institute of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, LMU Munich, Germany.(2)Roche Diagnostics GmbH, Penzberg, Germany.(3)Roche Diagnostics International AG, Rotkreuz, Switzerland.(4)Pathologiepraxis München, Germany.(5)Institute of Pathology, Charité University Hospital, Berlin, Germany.(6)University Institute of Pathology, University Hospital Salzburg, ParacelsusMedical University, Austria.Background: "Triple-negative breast cancers" (TNBC) comprise a heterogeneousgroup of about 15% of invasive BCs lacking the expression of estrogen andprogesterone receptors (ER, PR) and the expression of HER2 (ERBB2) and aretherefore no established candidates for targeted treatment options in BC, i.e.,endocrine and anti-HER2 therapy. The aim of the present study was to use geneexpression profiling and immunohistochemical (IHC) characterization to identifyreceptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) profiles that would allow patient stratificationfor the purposes of target-oriented personalized tumor therapy in TNBC. Methods: Twenty-nine cases of TNBC selected according to routine diagnosticIHC/cytogenetic criteria were examined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). RTK mRNA expression profiles were generated for a total of 31 tumor-relevant biomarkers, mainly belonging to the IGF- and EGF-receptor familiesbut also including biomarkers related to downstream signaling. Protein expressionof selected biomarkers was investigated by IHC. Results: Hierarchical clusteranalysis revealed a dichotomous differentiation pattern amongst TNBCs. Asignificant difference in gene expression was observed for 16 of the 31RTK-associated tumor relevant biomarkers between the two newly identified TNBCsubgroups. The findings were verified at the posttranslational level by the IHCdata. The RTKs HER4, IGF-1R and IGF-2R and the hormone receptors ER and PR below the IHC detection limit play a central role in the differentiation of the twoTNBC subgroups. Observed survival was reported as Kaplan-Meier estimates andpoint towards an improved survival of patients with RTK-high with superiorthree-year survival rate of 100% compared to RTK-low gene signatures withsuperior three-year survival rate of 60% (log-rank test, p-value = 0.022).Conclusion: Gene-expression and IHC analysis of the EGF and IGF receptor familiesand biomarkers associated with downstream signaling point to the existence of twodistinct TNBC subtypes. The RTKs HER4, IGF-1R, IGF-2R and the hormone receptorsER and PR appear to be of particular importance here. Based on survival analysis the differentiation of TNBC with RTK-high and RTK-low gene signatures seems to beof prognostic relevance. Additionally, correlation analysis of the relationshipbetween RTKs and ER suggests co-regulatory mechanisms that may have potentialsignificance in new therapeutic approaches.DOI: 10.7150/jca.23023 PMCID: PMC6072816PMID: 30087699 