189. J Glob Oncol. 2018 Jul;(4):1-8. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00158.Knowledge of Genetic Counseling Among Patients With Breast Cancer and TheirRelatives at a Nigerian Teaching Hospital.Adejumo P(1), Aniagwu T(1), Oluwatosin A(1), Fagbenle O(1), Ajayi O(1), OgungbadeD(1), Oluwamotemi A(1), Olatoye-Wahab F(1), Oni A(1), Olajide O(1), AdedokunB(1), Ogundiran T(1), Olopade O(1).Author information: (1)Prisca Adejumo, Abimbola Oluwatosin, Babatunde Adedokun, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, Ibadan; Toyin Aniagwu, Omolara Fagbenle, Olubunmi Ajayi,Dasola Ogungbade, Adeyoola Oluwamotemi, Funmilola Olatoye-Wahab, Abiodun Oni,Oluyemi Olajide, and Temidayo Ogundiran, University College Hospital, Oyo,Nigeria; and Olufunmilayo Olopade, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL.Breast cancer prevalence continues to increase globally, and a significantproportion of the disease has been linked to genetic susceptibility. As we enter the era of precision medicine, genetics knowledge and skills are increasinglyessential for achieving optimal cancer prevention and care. However, in Nigeria, patients with breast cancer and their relatives are less knowledgeable aboutgenetic susceptibility to chronic diseases. This pilot study collectedqualitative data during in-depth interviews with 21 participants. Of these, 19participants were patients with breast cancer and two were relatives of patients with breast cancer. Participants were asked questions regarding their knowledgeof breast cancer, views on heredity and breast cancer, and views on geneticcounseling. Participants' family histories were used as a basis with which toassess their hereditary risk of breast cancer. Participant responses were audiorecorded and transcribed manually. The study evaluated patients' and relatives'knowledge of genetic counseling and the use of family history for the assessment of familial risk of breast cancer. This will serve as a guide to the processes ofestablishing a cancer risk assessment clinic.DOI: 10.1200/JGO.17.00158 PMID: 30084716 