Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.28. Mol Syst Biol. 2018 Aug 6;14(8):e8322. doi: 10.15252/msb.20188322.Tumor-stroma interactions differentially alter drug sensitivity based on theorigin of stromal cells.Landry BD(1), Leete T(1), Richards R(1), Cruz-Gordillo P(1), Schwartz HR(1),Honeywell ME(1), Ren G(1), Schwartz AD(2), Peyton SR(2), Lee MJ(3).Author information: (1)Program in Systems Biology, Program in Molecular Medicine, Department ofMolecular, Cell and Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,Worcester, MA, USA.(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA, USA.(3)Program in Systems Biology, Program in Molecular Medicine, Department ofMolecular, Cell and Cancer Biology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,Worcester, MA, USA michael.lee@umassmed.edu.Due to tumor heterogeneity, most believe that effective treatments should betailored to the features of an individual tumor or tumor subclass. It is stillunclear, however, what information should be considered for optimal diseasestratification, and most prior work focuses on tumor genomics. Here, we focus on the tumor microenvironment. Using a large-scale coculture assay optimized tomeasure drug-induced cell death, we identify tumor-stroma interactions thatmodulate drug sensitivity. Our data show that the chemo-insensitivity typicallyassociated with aggressive subtypes of breast cancer is not observed if thesecells are grown in 2D or 3D monoculture, but is manifested when these cells arecocultured with stromal cells, such as fibroblasts. Furthermore, we find thatfibroblasts influence drug responses in two distinct and divergent manners,associated with the tissue from which the fibroblasts were harvested. Thesedivergent phenotypes occur regardless of the drug tested and result frommodulation of apoptotic priming within tumor cells. Our study highlightsunexpected diversity in tumor-stroma interactions, and we reveal new principlesthat dictate how fibroblasts alter tumor drug responses.© 2018 The Authors. Published under the terms of the CC BY 4.0 license.PMCID: PMC6078165PMID: 30082272 