Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest20. Indian J Cancer. 2017 Oct-Dec;54(4):658-663. doi: 10.4103/ijc.IJC_348_17.Triple-negative breast cancers: Are they always different from nontriple-negativebreast cancers? An experience from a tertiary center in India.Suhani(1), Parshad R(1), Kazi M(1), Seenu V(1), Mathur S(2), Dattagupta S(2),Haresh KP(3).Author information: (1)Department of Surgical Disciplines, AIIMS, New Delhi, India.(2)Department of Pathology, AIIMS, New Delhi, India.(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, BRAIRCH and AIIMS, New Delhi, India.BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs) are known for early age atpresentation, large tumor sizes, and overall poor prognosis. However, Indianstudies are scarce with limited follow-up data. Hence, the present study is aimedat characterizing nonmetastatic TNBC patients in our population and comparingtheir outcome with non-TNBC subset.METHODOLOGY: This is a retrospective observational study of nonmetastatic breast cancer patients accrued over 14 years. The demographic, clinical, andpathological profiles of TNBCs and their patterns of recurrences and survivalswere compared to that of non-TNBC. Overall and disease-free survival (DFSs) were calculated from the time of initiation of therapy to the occurrence of event,i.e., death or recurrence.RESULTS: TNBC constituted 21.8% of all patients. Patients with triple-negativesubtype were significantly younger and more likely to be premenopausal. Higherproportion of TNBC presented in locally advanced stage and had a higherproportion of node-positive patients compared to their non-TNBC counterparts.Although taxane-based neoadjuvant therapy was associated with significantlyhigher pathological complete responses, recurrences occurred earlier in TNBC.Even though inferior overall and DFSs were encountered in TNBC, statisticalsignificance could not be derived.CONCLUSIONS: TNBCs are a subset of tumors with a poorly understood tumor biology and behavior. Despite being labeled as having an aggressive tumor biology andbehavior, not many differences are seen in their clinical outcomes when theypresent as locally advanced cases.DOI: 10.4103/ijc.IJC_348_17 PMID: 30082553 