176. Cell Calcium. 2018 Jul 31;74:160-167. doi: 10.1016/j.ceca.2018.07.011. [Epubahead of print]ORAI channels and cancer.Chalmers SB(1), Monteith GR(2).Author information: (1)The School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia.(2)The School of Pharmacy, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland,Australia; Mater Research Institute, The University of Queensland, Translational Research Institute, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. Electronic address:greg@pharmacy.uq.edu.au.Cancer is a major cause of death. The diversity of cancer types and thepropensity of cancers to acquire resistance to therapies, including newmolecularly targeted and immune-based therapies, drives the search for new waysto understand cancer progression. The remodelling of calcium (Ca2+) signallingand the role of the Ca2+ signal in controlling key events in cancer cells such asproliferation, invasion and the acquisition of resistance to cell death pathways is well established. Most of the work defining such changes has focused on Ca2+permeable Transient Receptor Potential (TRP) Channels and some voltage gated Ca2+channels. However, the identification of ORAI channels, a little more than adecade ago, has added a new dimension to how a Ca2+ influx pathway can beremodelled in some cancers and also how calcium signalling could contribute totumour progression. ORAI Ca2+ channels are now an exemplar for how changes in theexpression of specific isoforms of a Ca2+ channel component can occur in cancer, and how such changes can vary between cancer types (e.g. breast cancer versusprostate cancer), and even subtypes (e.g. oestrogen receptor positive versusoestrogen receptor negative breast cancers). ORAI channels and store operatedCa2+ entry are also highlighting the diverse roles of Ca2+ influx pathways inevents such as the growth and metastasis of cancers, the development oftherapeutic resistance and the contribution of tumour microenvironmental factors in cancer progression. In this review we will highlight some of the studies that have provided evidence for the need to deepen our understanding of ORAI Ca2+channels in cancer. Many of these studies have also suggested new ways on how we can exploit the role of ORAI channels in cancer relevant processes to develop or inform new therapeutic strategies.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.ceca.2018.07.011 PMID: 30086406 