157. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Aug 7;19(8). pii: E2311. doi: 10.3390/ijms19082311.Liquid Biopsy in Endometrial Cancer: New Opportunities for Personalized Oncology.Muinelo-Romay L(1), Casas-Arozamena C(2), Abal M(3).Author information: (1)Liquid Biopsy Analysis Unit, Translational Medical Oncology Group (Oncomet),CIBERONC, Health Research Institute of Santiago de Compostela (IDIS), University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela (SERGAS), Trav. Choupana s/n, 15706 Santiagode Compostela, Spain. laura.muinelo.romay@sergas.es.(2)Translational Medical Oncology Group (Oncomet), CIBERONC, Health ResearchInstitute of Santiago (IDIS), University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela(SERGAS), Trav. Choupana s/n, 15706 Santiago de Compostela, Spain.carlos.casas_95@hotmail.es.(3)Translational Medical Oncology Group (Oncomet), CIBERONC, Health ResearchInstitute of Santiago (IDIS), University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela(SERGAS), Trav. Choupana s/n, 15706 Santiago de Compostela, Spain.miguel.abal.posada@sergas.es.The identification of new molecular targets and biomarkers associated with highrisk of recurrence and response to therapy represents one of the main clinicalchallenges in the management of advanced disease in endometrial cancer. In thissense, the field of liquid biopsy has emerged as a great revolution in oncologyand is considered "the way" to reach personalised medicine. In this review, wediscuss the promising but already relatively limited advances of liquid biopsy inendometrial cancer compared to other types of tumours like breast, colorectal or prostate cancer. We present recent data analysing circulating tumour material in minimally-invasive blood samples, but also in alternative forms of liquid biopsy like uterine aspirates. Proteomic and genomic studies focused on liquid-baseduterine samples are resulting not only in optimal diagnostic tools but also inreliable approaches to address tumour heterogeneity. Likewise, circulating tumourcells (CTCs) and circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) represent an opportunity for the correct stratification of patients, for the assessment of early recurrent diseaseor for the real-time monitoring of therapy responses. Appropriately designedstudies and implementation in clinical trials will determine the value of liquid biopsy for precision oncology in endometrial cancer.DOI: 10.3390/ijms19082311 PMID: 30087246 