199. Arch Toxicol. 2018 Aug 6. doi: 10.1007/s00204-018-2276-y. [Epub ahead of print]Inhibition and stimulation of the human breast cancer resistance protein as invitro predictor of drug-drug interactions of drugs of abuse.Wagmann L(1), Maurer HH(1), Meyer MR(2).Author information: (1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Toxicology, Institute of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Center for Molecular Signaling (PZMS), Saarland University, 66421, Homburg, Germany.(2)Department of Experimental and Clinical Toxicology, Institute of Experimental and Clinical Pharmacology and Toxicology, Center for Molecular Signaling (PZMS), Saarland University, 66421, Homburg, Germany. markus.meyer@uks.eu.Transporter-mediated drug-drug interactions (DDI) may induce adverse clinicalevents. As drugs of abuse (DOA) are marketed without preclinical safety studies, only very limited information about interplay with membrane transporters areavailable. Therefore, 13 DOA of various classes were tested for their in vitroaffinity to the human breast cancer resistance protein (hBCRP), an importantefflux transporter. As adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) hydrolysis is crucial for hBCRP activity, adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) formation was measured and used asin vitro marker for hBCRP ATPase activity. ADP quantification was performed byhydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution tandemmass spectrometry and its amount in test compound incubations was compared tothat in reference incubations using the hBCRP substrate sulfasalazine or thehBCRP inhibitor orthovanadate. If DOA caused stimulation or inhibition, furtherinvestigations such as Michaelis-Menten kinetic modeling or IC50 valuedetermination were conducted. Among the tested DOA, seven compounds showedstatistically significant hBCRP ATPase stimulation. The entactogen 3,4-BDB andthe plant alkaloid mitragynine were identified as strongest stimulators. Theiraffinity to the hBCRP ATPase was lower than that of sulfasalazine but comparable to that of rosuvastatin, another hBCRP model substrate. Five DOA showedstatistically significant hBCRP ATPase inhibition. Determination of IC50 valuesidentified the synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonists JWH-200 and WIN 55,212-2as the strongest inhibitors comparable to orthovanadate. The present studyclearly demonstrated that tested DOA show in part high affinities to the hBCRPwithin the range of model substrates or inhibitors. Thus, there is a risk ofhBCRP-mediated DDI, which needs to be considered in clinical settings.DOI: 10.1007/s00204-018-2276-y PMID: 30083819 