177. PLoS One. 2018 Aug 7;13(8):e0201844. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201844.eCollection 2018.Cation-dependent mannose-6-phosphate receptor expression and distribution areinfluenced by estradiol in MCF-7 breast cancer cells.Bannoud N(1), Carvelli FL(1), Troncoso M(1), Sartor T(1), Vargas-Roig LM(2), SosaM(1).Author information: (1)Instituto de Histología y Embriología (IHEM), Facultad de Ciencias Médicas,Universidad Nacional de Cuyo, CONICET, Mendoza, Argentina.(2)Instituto de Medicina y Biología Experimental de Cuyo (IMBECU), CONICET,Mendoza, Argentina.Cancer cells secrete procathepsin D, and its secretion is enhanced by estradiol. Although alterations in the pro-enzyme intracellular transport have beenreported, the mechanism by which it is secreted remains poorly understood. Inthis work, we have studied the influence of estradiol on the expression anddistribution of the cation-dependent mannose-6-phosphate receptor (CD-MPR), whichwould be a key molecule to ensure the proper localization of the enzyme tolysosomes in breast cancer cells. Immunoblotting studies demonstrated that theexpression of CD-MPR is higher in MCF-7 cells, as compared to other breast cancerand non-tumorigenic cells. This expression correlated with high levels ofcathepsin D (CatD) in these cells. By immunofluorescence, this receptor mostlyco-localized with a Golgi marker in all cell types, exhibiting an additionalperipheral labelling in MCF-7 cells. In addition, CD-MPR showed great differencesregarding to cation-independent mannose-6-phosphate receptor. On the other hand, the treatment with estradiol induced an increase in CD-MPR and CatD expressionand a re-distribution of both proteins towards the cell periphery. These effects were blocked by the anti-estrogen tamoxifen. Moreover, a re-distribution ofCD-MPR to plasma membrane-enriched fractions, analyzed by gradientcentrifugation, was observed after estradiol treatment. We conclude that, inhormone-responsive breast cancer cells, CD-MPR and CatD are distributed together,and that their expression and distribution are influenced by estradiol. Thesefindings strongly support the involvement of the CD-MPR in the pro-enzymetransport in MCF-7 cells, suggesting the participation of this receptor in theprocathepsin D secretion previously reported in breast cancer cells.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201844 PMID: 30086159 