127. PLoS One. 2018 Aug 8;13(8):e0201813. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201813.eCollection 2018.A combined approach with gene-wise normalization improves the analysis of RNA-seqdata in human breast cancer subtypes.Li X(1), Rouchka EC(2), Brock GN(3), Yan J(4), O'Toole TE(5), Tieri DA(1), CooperNGF(1).Author information: (1)Department of Anatomical Sciences and Neurobiology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, United States of America.(2)Department of Computer Engineering and Computer Science, University ofLouisville, Louisville, KY, United States of America.(3)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH,United States of America.(4)Department of Medicine, James Graham Brown Cancer Center, University ofLouisville, Louisville, KY, United States of America.(5)Department of Cardiology, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY, UnitedStates of America.Breast cancer (BC) is increasing in incidence and resistance to treatmentworldwide. The challenges in limited therapeutic options and poor survivaloutcomes in BC subtypes persist because of its molecular heterogeneity andresistance to standard endocrine therapy. Recently, high throughput RNAsequencing (RNA-seq) has been used to identify biomarkers of disease progression and signaling pathways that could be amenable to specific therapies according to the BC subtype. However, there is no single generally accepted pipeline for theanalysis of RNA-seq data in biomarker discovery due, in part, to the needs ofsimultaneously satisfying constraints of sensitivity and specificity. We proposeda combined approach using gene-wise normalization, UQ-pgQ2, followed by a Waldtest from DESeq2. Our approach improved the analysis based on within-groupcomparisons in terms of the specificity when applied to publicly availableRNA-seq BC datasets. In terms of identifying differentially expressed genes(DEGs), we combined an optimized log2 fold change cutoff with a nominal falsediscovery rate of 0.05 to further minimize false positives. Using this method in the analysis of two GEO BC datasets, we identified 797 DEGs uniquely expressed intriple negative BC (TNBC) and significantly associated with T cell andimmune-related signaling, contributing to the immunotherapeutic efficacy in TNBC patients. In contrast, we identified 1403 DEGs uniquely expressed in estrogenpositive and HER2 negative BC (ER+HER2-BC) and significantly associated witheicosanoid, notching and FAK signaling while a common set of genes was associatedwith cellular growth and proliferation. Thus, our approach to control for falsepositives identified two distinct gene expression profiles associated with these two subtypes of BC which are distinguishable by their molecular and functionalattributes.DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0201813 PMID: 30089167 