40. J Chromatogr B Analyt Technol Biomed Life Sci. 2018 Jul 31;1095:204-213. doi:10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.07.042. [Epub ahead of print]FPSE-HPLC-DAD method for the quantification of anticancer drugs in human wholeblood, plasma, and urine.Locatelli M(1), Tinari N(2), Grassadonia A(2), Tartaglia A(3), Macerola D(3),Piccolantonio S(3), Sperandio E(3), D'Ovidio C(4), Carradori S(3), Ulusoy HI(5), Furton KG(6), Kabir A(7).Author information: (1)University of Chieti - Pescara "G. d'Annunzio", Department of Pharmacy,Chieti, Italy. Electronic address: m.locatelli@unich.it.(2)University of Chieti - Pescara "G. d'Annunzio", Department of Medical, Oraland Biotechnological Sciences, Centro Scienze dell'Invecchiamento e MedicinaTraslazionale - CeSI-MeT, Chieti, Italy.(3)University of Chieti - Pescara "G. d'Annunzio", Department of Pharmacy,Chieti, Italy.(4)University of Chieti - Pescara "G. d'Annunzio", Section of Legal Medicine,Department of Medicine and Aging Sciences, Chieti, Italy.(5)Cumhuriyet University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of AnalyticalChemistry, Sivas, Turkey.(6)International Forensic Research Institute, Department of Chemistry andBiochemistry, Florida International University, Miami, FL, USA.(7)International Forensic Research Institute, Department of Chemistry andBiochemistry, Florida International University, Miami, FL, USA. Electronicaddress: akabir@fiu.edu.The present work describes a fast, sensitive and selective procedure for theanalyses of aromatase inhibitors including anastrozole, letrozole and exemestane used in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer by high performance liquidchromatography (HPLC) in human whole blood, plasma, and urine samples succeeding an extraction by innovative fabric phase sorptive extraction (FPSE). These drugs were successfully determined using a Luna C18 column at 25 °C using acetonitrile and phosphate buffer. The analytical method was validated, using weighted-matrix matched standard calibration curves. The intra- and inter-day accuracy values(precision and trueness) fulfill the criteria of International Guidelines onBioanalytical Methods Validation. The analytical performances were further testedon real human biological samples. To the best of our knowledge, this is the firstFPSE procedure applied to human whole blood, plasma, and urine samples for theconcurrent analysis of aromatase inhibitors possessing a wide range of polarityindex values and could be easily adopted as a rapid and green analytical protocolfor clinical and pharmaceutical applications. The proposed HPLC method is veryinnovative since in the literature there are only methods dealing with a singleantitumoral drug, and no process has been described so far for these threeantitumoral drugs together directly from the whole blood.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jchromb.2018.07.042 PMID: 30081349 