78. BMC Cancer. 2018 Aug 9;18(1):805. doi: 10.1186/s12885-018-4626-9.Fatty acid oxidation is associated with proliferation and prognosis in breast andother cancers.Aiderus A(1), Black MA(1), Dunbier AK(2).Author information: (1)Centre for Translational Cancer Research and Department of Biochemistry,University of Otago, Dunedin, 9054, New Zealand.(2)Centre for Translational Cancer Research and Department of Biochemistry,University of Otago, Dunedin, 9054, New Zealand. anita.dunbier@otago.ac.nz.BACKGROUND: Altered cellular metabolism is a hallmark of cancer but theassociation between utilisation of particular metabolic pathways in tumours andpatient outcome is poorly understood. We sought to investigate the associationbetween fatty acid metabolism and outcome in breast and other cancers.METHODS: Cox regression analysis and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) of agene expression dataset from primary breast tumours with well annotated clinical and survival information was used to identify genesets associated with outcome. Ageneset representing fatty acid oxidation (FAO) was then examined in otherdatasets. A doxycycline-inducible breast cancer cell line model overexpressingthe rate-limiting enzyme in FAO, carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1A (CPT1A) wasgenerated and analysed to confirm the association between FAO andcancer-associated characteristics in vitro.RESULTS: We identified a gene expression signature composed of 19 genesassociated with fatty acid oxidation (FAO) that was significantly associated withpatient outcome. We validated this observation in eight independent breast cancerdatasets, and also observed the FAO signature to be prognostic in other cancertypes. Furthermore, the FAO signature expression was significantly downregulated in tumours, compared to normal tissues from a variety of anatomic origins. Inbreast cancer, the expression of CPT1A was higher in oestrogen receptor(ER)-positive, compared to ER-negative tumours and cell lines. Importantly,overexpression of CPT1A significantly decreased the proliferation and woundhealing migration rates of MDA-MB231 breast cancer cells, compared to basalexpression control.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that FAO is downregulated in multiple tumourtypes, and activation of this pathway may lower cancer cell proliferation, and isassociated with improved outcomes in some cancers.DOI: 10.1186/s12885-018-4626-9 PMID: 30092766 