18. IET Nanobiotechnol. 2018 Aug;12(5):600-603. doi: 10.1049/iet-nbt.2017.0080.Apoptotic efficacy and antiproliferative potential of silver nanoparticlessynthesised from aqueous extract of sumac (Rhus coriaria L.).Ghorbani P(1), Namvar F(2), Homayouni-Tabrizi M(3), Soltani M(4), Karimi E(4),Yaghmaei P(1).Author information: (1)Department of Biology, Science and Research branch, Islamic Azad University,Tehran, Iran.(2)Mashhad Branch, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, Iran.(3)Department of Biology, Mashhad Branch, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, Iran.mhomayouni6@gmail.com.(4)Department of Biology, Mashhad Branch, Islamic Azad University, Mashhad, Iran.Currently, nanotechnology and nanoparticles (NPs) are recognised due to theirextensive applications in medicine and the treatment of certain diseases,including cancer. Silver NPs (AgNPs) synthesised by environmentally friendlymethod exhibit a high medical potential. This study was conducted to determinethe cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of AgNPs synthesised from sumac(Anacardiaceae family) fruit aqueous extract (AgSu/NPs) on human breast cancercells (MCF-7). The anti-proliferative effect of AgSu/NPs was determined by MTTassay. The apoptotic properties of AgSu/NPs were assessed by morphologicalanalysis and acridine orange/propidium iodide (AO/PI) and DAPI staining. Themechanism of apoptosis induction in treated cells was investigated usingmolecular analysis. Overall results of morphological examination and cytotoxicassay revealed that AgSu/NPs exert a concentration-dependent inhibitory effect onthe viability of MCF-7 cells (IC50 of ∼10 µmol/48 h). AO/PI staining confirmedthe occurrence of apoptosis in cells treated with AgSu/NPs. In addition,molecular analysis demonstrated that the apoptosis in MCF-7 cells exposed toAgSu/NPs was induced via up-regulation of Bax and down-regulation of Bcl-2. Thesefindings suggested the potential use of AgSu/NP as cytotoxic and pro-apoptoticefficacy and its possible application in modern medicine for treating certaindisorders, such as cancer.DOI: 10.1049/iet-nbt.2017.0080 PMID: 30095419 