14. J Glob Oncol. 2018 Jul;(4):1-12. doi: 10.1200/JGO.17.00190.Avoidable Mortality: The Core of the Global Cancer Divide.Knaul FM(1), Arreola-Ornelas H(1), Rodriguez NM(1), Méndez-Carniado O(1), KweteXJ(1), Puentes-Rosas E(1), Bhadelia A(1).Author information: (1)Felicia Marie Knaul, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center at the Universityof Miami; Felicia Marie Knaul and Natalia M. Rodriguez, University of MiamiInstitute for Advanced Study of the Americas; Hector Arreola-Ornelas, AfsanBhadelia, and Xiaoxiao Jiang Kwete, University of Miami, Miami, FL; Felicia MarieKnaul, Hector Arreola-Ornelas, and Oscar Méndez-Carniado, Fundación Mexicana parala Salud, A.C.; Felicia Marie Knaul and Hector Arreola-Ornelas, Tómateloa a PechoA.C., Mexico City; and Esteban Puentes-Rosas, Sanofi Pasteur, LATAM Region,Mexico.Purpose The incidence of infection-associated cancers and lethality of cancersamenable to treatment are closely correlated with the income of countries. Weanalyzed a core part of this global cancer divide-the distribution of prematuremortality across country income groups and cancers-applying novel approaches tomeasure avoidable mortality and identify priorities for public policy. Methods Weanalyzed avoidable cancer mortality using set lower- and upper-bound age limitsof 65 and 75 years (empirical approach), applying cancer-specific and countryincome group-specific ages of death (feasibility approach), and applyingcancer-specific ages of death of high-income countries to all low- andmiddle-income countries (LMICs; social justice approach). We applied thesemethods to 2015 mortality data on 16 cancers for which prevention is possibleand/or treatment is likely to result in cure or significant increase in lifeexpectancy. Results At least 30% and as much as 50% of cancer deaths arepremature, corresponding to between 2.6 and 4.3 million deaths each year, and 70%to 80% are concentrated in LMICs. Using the feasibility approach, 36% of cancerdeaths are avoidable; with the social justice approach, 45% of cancer deaths are avoidable. Five cancer types-breast, colorectal, lung, liver, and stomach-accountfor almost 75% of avoidable cancer deaths in LMICs and worldwide. Conclusion Eachyear, millions of premature cancer deaths could be avoided with interventionsfocused on four priority areas: infection-associated cancers, lifestyle and risk factors, women's cancers, and children's cancers. Our analysis of the globalburden and the specific cancer types associated with avoidable cancer mortalitysuggests significant opportunities for health systems to redress the inequity of the global cancer divide.DOI: 10.1200/JGO.17.00190 PMID: 30096010 