Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.2. Micron. 2018 Aug 1;114:42-61. doi: 10.1016/j.micron.2018.07.005. [Epub ahead ofprint]A study about color normalization methods for histopathology images.Roy S(1), Kumar Jain A(2), Lal S(3), Kini J(4).Author information: (1)Department of E&C Engineering, National Institute of Technology Karnataka,Surathkal, Mangaluru-575025, India. Electronic address: santanuroy35@gmail.com.(2)Department of E&C Engineering, National Institute of Technology Karnataka,Surathkal, Mangaluru-575025, India. Electronic address: jain.alok46@gmail.com.(3)Department of E&C Engineering, National Institute of Technology Karnataka,Surathkal, Mangaluru-575025, India. Electronic address: shyamfec@nitk.edu.in.(4)Department of pathology, Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, India.Electronic address: kinijyoti@gmail.com.Histopathology images are used for the diagnosis of the cancerous disease by the examination of tissue with the help of Whole Slide Imaging (WSI) scanner. Adecision support system works well by the analysis of the histopathology imagesbut a lot of problems arise in its decision. Color variation in thehistopathology images is occurring due to use of the different scanner, use ofvarious equipments, different stain coloring and reactivity from a differentmanufacturer. In this paper, detailed study and performance evaluation of colornormalization methods on histopathology image datasets are presented. Colornormalization of the source image by transferring the mean color of the targetimage in the source image and also to separate stain present in the source image.Stain separation and color normalization of the histopathology images can behelped for both pathology and computerized decision support system. Qualityperformances of different color normalization methods are evaluated and compared in terms of quaternion structure similarity index matrix (QSSIM), structuresimilarity index matrix (SSIM) and Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC) onvarious histopathology image datasets. Our experimental analysis suggests thatstructure-preserving color normalization (SPCN) provides better qualitatively andqualitatively results in comparison to the all the presented methods for breastand colorectal cancer histopathology image datasets.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.micron.2018.07.005 PMID: 30096632 