73. Breast Cancer Res. 2018 Aug 9;20(1):92. doi: 10.1186/s13058-018-1010-2.High mammographic density in women is associated with protumor inflammation.Huo CW(1), Hill P(2), Chew G(1), Neeson PJ(3)(4)(5), Halse H(4), WilliamsED(6)(7), Henderson MA(1)(4), Thompson EW(1)(6)(7), Britt KL(8)(9).Author information: (1)Department of Surgery, St. Vincent's Hospital, University of Melbourne,Melbourne, Australia.(2)Department of Pathology, St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.(3)Pathology Department, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.(4)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Australia.(5)The Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne,Melbourne, Australia.(6)Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation and School of BiomedicalSciences, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia.(7)Translational Research Institute, Brisbane, Australia.(8)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Australia. kara.britt@petermac.org.(9)The Sir Peter MacCallum Department of Oncology, University of Melbourne,Melbourne, Australia. kara.britt@petermac.org.BACKGROUND: Epidemiological studies have consistently shown that increasedmammographic density (MD) is a strong risk factor for breast cancer. Wepreviously observed an elevated number of vimentin+/CD45+ leukocytes in high MD(HMD) epithelium. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the subtypes ofimmune cell infiltrates in HMD and low MD (LMD) breast tissue.METHODS: Fifty-four women undergoing prophylactic mastectomy at Peter MacCallumCancer Centre or St. Vincent's Hospital were enrolled. Upon completion ofmastectomy, HMD and LMD areas were resected under radiological guidance incollaboration with BreastScreen Victoria and were subsequently fixed, processed, and sectioned. Fifteen paired HMD and LMD specimens were further selectedaccording to their fibroglandular characteristics (reasonable amount [> 20%] oftissue per block on H&E stains) for subsequent IHC analysis of immune cellinfiltration.RESULTS: Overall, immune cell infiltrates were predominantly present in breastducts and lobules rather than in the stroma, with CD68+ macrophages and CD20+ Blymphocytes also surrounding the vasculature. Macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs),B lymphocytes, and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) expression weresignificantly increased in HMD epithelium compared with LMD. Moreover,significantly higher levels of DCs, CD4+ T cells, and PD-1 were also observed in HMD stroma than in LMD stroma. The increased expression of interleukin (IL)-6 andIL-4, with unaltered interferon-γ, indicate a proinflammatory microenvironment.CONCLUSIONS: Our work indicates that the immune system may be activated veryearly in breast cancer development and may in part underpin the breast cancerrisk associated with HMD.DOI: 10.1186/s13058-018-1010-2 PMID: 30092832 