16. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Aug;97(32):e11804. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000011804.Imaging findings of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor in breast: A case report.Mao X(1), Liu H(1), Du J(2), Yu N(3), Chen L(1), Zhang L(1).Author information: (1)Department of Radiology.(2)Cancer Research Institute.(3)Department of Pathology, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, Binzhou,Shandong, China.RATIONALE: Inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors (IMTs), particularly breast IMTs, are rare neoplastic lesions typically associated with a favorable prognosis.Breast IMTs are easily misdiagnosed as other types of malignant lesions, andtherefore there is a significant unmet need for a better preoperationaldifferential diagnosis based on imaging manifestations. Here, we report theimaging findings of a breast IMT and compare our findings with previouslypublished features of breast IMTs.PATIENT CONCERNS: The patient, a 43-year-old female, reported the presence of apalpable lump within her left breast. An ultrasound examination revealed anirregular hypoechoic mass with unclear boundaries. Mammography demonstrated amass of heterogeneous and striped density with granular calcification. Magneticresonance image (MRI) inspection displayed an irregular tissue lump with anundistinguishable boundary and a further dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI disclosed an associated efflux change.DIAGNOSES: Breast inflammatory myofibroblastic tumors.INTERVENTIONS: Breast needle biopsy and mammary resection were performed.Pathological staining of the bulk resected tumor after preoperative preparationrevealed that the tumor-like tissue was enriched for spindle cells arranged infascicular clusters. Histopathological diagnosis and immunohistochemistryconfirmed the mass as being a breast IMT.OUTCOMES: No metastatic recurrence was found during 6-month or 1-year follow-ups.LESSONS: Breast IMTs commonly develop in elderly women with atypical imagingfeatures. They are primarily composed of lobular soft tissues infiltrated with anabundant focal blood supply and granular calcification. Development of breastIMTs is closely related to trauma. A preliminary diagnosis of such masses can be made based on combined manifestations of both clinical and imaging features,while a final confirmation still requires pathological staining. Imagingexaminations are of value for such tumors to define the lesion edges and theirassociations with adjacent tissues.DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000011804 PMID: 30095645 