36. Neuroimage Clin. 2018 Jul 12;20:110-118. doi: 10.1016/j.nicl.2018.07.010.eCollection 2018.Hippocampal functional connectivity is related to self-reported cognitiveconcerns in breast cancer patients undergoing adjuvant therapy.Apple AC(1)(2), Schroeder MP(2), Ryals AJ(2), Wagner LI(3), Cella D(2)(4)(5),Shih PA(6), Reilly J(1)(2), Penedo FJ(4), Voss JL(2)(4)(5), Wang L(1)(2)(7).Author information: (1)Division of Clinical Psychology, Northwestern University Feinberg School ofMedicine, United States.(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Northwestern UniversityFeinberg School of Medicine, United States.(3)Department of Social Sciences and Health Policy, Wake Forest School ofMedicine, United States.(4)Department of Medical Social Sciences, Northwestern University Feinberg Schoolof Medicine, United States.(5)Ken and Ruth Davee Department of Neurology, Northwestern University FeinbergSchool of Medicine, United States.(6)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Diego, United States.(7)Department of Radiology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, United States.Nearly three out of four survivors experience Cancer-Related Cognitive Impairment(CRCI) for months or years following treatment. Both clinical and animal studies point to the hippocampus as a likely brain region affected in CRCI, however noprevious study has investigated the functional connectivity of the hippocampus inCRCI. We compared hippocampal connectivity in cancer survivors and healthycontrols and tested the relationship between functional connectivity differences and measures of objective and subjective cognition. Exploratory analysis ofinflammatory markers was conducted in a small subset of participants as well.FMRI data were acquired during a memory task from 16 breast cancer survivors and 17 controls. The NIH Toolbox was used to assess cognitive performance andNeuro-QoL was used to measure self-reported cognitive concerns. Whole-braingroup-level comparisons identified clusters with different connectivity to thehippocampus in survivors versus controls during task. Average connectivity wasextracted from clusters of significant difference between the groups andcorrelated with cognitive performance and subjective report. Survivors performed worse on a test of episodic memory and reported greater cognitive concern thancontrols. Exploratory analysis found higher IL6 in cancer survivors compared tocontrols. Cancer survivors demonstrated higher connectivity of hippocampus withleft cuneus, left lingual, left precuneus, and right middle prefrontal gyruscompared with controls. In survivors, higher task-related hippocampal-corticalconnectivity was related to worse subjective measures of cognitive concern. Ofthe four significant clusters, higher connectivity of the precuneus withhippocampus was significantly associated with worse cognitive concern insurvivors. The observed greater hippocampal-cortical connectivity in survivorscompared to controls is the first reported fMRI biomarker of subjective concern, and may represent a compensatory response to cancer and its treatments. Thiscompensation could explain, in part, the subjective feelings of cognitiveimpairment that were reported by survivors.DOI: 10.1016/j.nicl.2018.07.010 PMCID: PMC6077172PMID: 30094161 