37. Cureus. 2018 Jun 7;10(6):e2757. doi: 10.7759/cureus.2757.Gastrointestinal Bleed from Erosive Gastritis and Duodenitis: A Sentinel Event ofInvasive Lobular Carcinoma of the Breast and a Diagnostic Dilemma.Ulanja MB(1), Taha M(2), Al-Mashhadani A(3), Beutler BD(4), Al-Tekreeti M(5),Elliot C(6), Ambika S(7).Author information: (1)Internal Medicine, University of Nevada School of Medicine, Reno, USA.(2)Internal Medicine, University of Nevada, Reno, School of Medicine, Reno, USA.(3)Internal Medicine, University of Nevada Reno, School of Medicine, Reno, USA.(4)Internal Medicine, University of Nevada, Reno School of Medicine, Reno, USA.(5)Public Health, 2) American Public University System, Charles Town, USA.(6)Pathology, University of Nevada Reno, School of Medicine, Reno, USA.(7)Hematology-Oncology, University of Nevada Reno, School of Medicine, Reno, USA.Metastasis from breast cancer to the gastrointestinal (GI) tract is uncommon, andsuch events presenting as GI bleeding are exceedingly rare. In some individuals, the absence of classical findings of primary breast cancer coupled with thenon-specific nature of GI symptoms may make early detection and diagnosischallenging. Our patient is a 75-year-old female who presented with symptomaticanemia manifesting as progressive dizziness, weakness, and early satiety thatdeveloped eight days after right knee arthroplasty. She had a remote history ofacid reflux disease and reported regular use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatorydrugs (NSAIDs). Physical examination was notable for pallor and tachycardia; the cardiopulmonary examination was otherwise unremarkable and the abdominalexamination was normal. A fecal occult blood test was positive. Subsequentesophagogastroduodenoscopy demonstrated significant erosive gastritis andduodenitis that was initially attributed to the patient's NSAID use. However,biopsy showed signet ring carcinoma. No gastric primary tumor was identified onwork up. Extensive evaluation ultimately revealed invasive lobular carcinoma ofthe breast. Notably, no primary breast lesion had been detected on physicalexamination or breast mammography or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Therapyfor invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast is substantially different fromgastric carcinoma and thus it is important to accurately diagnose the conditionearly in its course to optimize patient outcomes.DOI: 10.7759/cureus.2757 PMCID: PMC6080734PMID: 30094114 