3. Biomaterials. 2018 Jul 30;181:252-267. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.07.053.[Epub ahead of print]Dual purpose hafnium oxide nanoparticles offer imaging Streptococcus mutansdental biofilm and fight it In vivo via a drug free approach.Ostadhossein F(1), Misra SK(1), Tripathi I(1), Kravchuk V(1), Vulugundam G(1),LoBato D(2), Selmic LE(2), Pan D(3).Author information: (1)Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,Urbana, IL, USA; Mills Breast Cancer Institute and Carle Foundation Hospital, 502North Busey, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.(2)Department of Veterinary Clinical Medicine, University of Illinois atUrbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.(3)Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,Urbana, IL, USA; Mills Breast Cancer Institute and Carle Foundation Hospital, 502North Busey, Urbana, IL 61801, USA; Beckman Institute of Advanced Science andTechnology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA;Department of Materials Science and Engineering, University of Illinois atUrbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA; Institute for Sustainability in Energy andEnvironment, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, USA.Electronic address: dipanjan@illinois.edu.The removal of tenacious dental plaque is of paramount importance; however, earlydiagnosis can be a challenging task in dental clinics due to the limitations ofcurrent approaches, specifically X-ray-based techniques. We have approached this problem by integrating antibacterial properties and X-ray contrast enhancement ina single probe specific to colonies of Streptococcus mutans as the mostpredominant and carious oral bacteria. We report the synthesis of an inherentlytherapeutic polymeric silane conjugated hafnium oxide nanoparticles (Hf PS NPs). Using a high-affinity pathogen-selective peptide, the concept of molecularlytargeted X-ray imaging of cariogenic pathogen S. mutans was demonstrated. Ex vivostudies using extracted human tooth demonstrated striking X-ray attenuation ofNPs vs. tooth. Additionally, Hf PS NPs exhibited significant bactericidalproperties against cariogenic pathogen. Electron microscopy revealed that theantibacterial activity occurred via a 'latch and kill' mechanism. Mechanisticstudies determined that these NPs fragmented bacterial DNA components to exerttheir antimicrobial effect. Importantly, Hf PS NPs effectively inhibited thegrowth of a mature biofilm on an ex vivo human tooth model. Finally, the NPs wereapplied to the rodent model of dental biofilm. Topical administration of the HfPS NPs for 8 days (1X daily) could effectively attenuate the S. mutans biofilmchallenge. This report is the first of its kind to demonstrate that HfO2-basedNPs can be used for simultaneous diagnosis and antibacterial treatment withoutrequiring an additional drug.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2018.07.053 PMID: 30096560 