67. JACC Cardiovasc Imaging. 2018 Aug;11(8):1122-1131. doi:10.1016/j.jcmg.2018.03.025.Contemporary Role of Echocardiography for Clinical Decision Making in PatientsDuring and After Cancer Therapy.Liu J(1), Banchs J(2), Mousavi N(3), Plana JC(4), Scherrer-Crosbie M(5),Thavendiranathan P(6), Barac A(7).Author information: (1)Cardiology Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and Weill CornellMedical Center, New York, New York. Electronic address: liuj1234@mskcc.org.(2)Division of Cardiology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,Houston, Texas.(3)Division of Cardiology, McGill University Health Center, Montreal, Quebec,Canada.(4)Division of Cardiology, Texas Heart Institute Baylor St. Luke's MedicalCenter, Houston, Texas.(5)Division of Cardiology, The Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.(6)Division of Cardiology, Toronto General Hospital, University Health Network,University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.(7)MedStar Heart and Vascular Institute, MedStar Washington Hospital Center,Washington, DC. Electronic address: ana.barac@medstar.net.Early recognition of cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD) provides an opportunity to mitigate cardiac injury and risk of developing late cardiacevents. Echocardiography serves as the cornerstone in the detection andsurveillance of CTRCD in patients during and after cancer therapy. Guidelinesfrom professional societies and regulatory agencies have been published onapproaches to surveillance, diagnosis, and treatment of CTRCD, although adoption as standard of care remains limited given the lack of evidence on the prognostic value of asymptomatic left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in the oncologypopulation. The frequency of cardiac monitoring and the appropriateness of theFood and Drug Administration (FDA)-recommended cardiac monitoring schedule in allpatients receiving trastuzumab for breast cancer has been challenged.Interruption versus continuation of oncological therapy in the setting ofasymptomatic LV dysfunction remains a clinical conundrum given the uncertainbalance of the risk of cardiac dysfunction and benefit of oncology efficacy.Despite their limitations, echocardiographic measures of LV function continue to play a pivotal role in clinical decision making, with global longitudinal strain emerging as a promising tool in informing and facilitating the selection ofcancer treatment and optimizing cardiovascular outcomes. This review highlightsthe key recommendations of the existing guidelines and discusses recentdevelopments in cardio-oncology imaging practices with the aim of providingpractical guidance on the role and use of echocardiography in challengingclinical cases in cardio-oncology.Copyright © 2018 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by ElsevierInc. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1016/j.jcmg.2018.03.025 PMID: 30092969 