104. Med Phys. 2018 Aug 9. doi: 10.1002/mp.13116. [Epub ahead of print]Cascaded systems analysis of shift-variant image quality in slit-scanning breast tomosynthesis.Berggren K(1)(2), Cederström B(2), Lundqvist M(2), Fredenberg E(3).Author information: (1)Physics of Medical Imaging, Royal Institute of Technology, AlbaNova UniversityCenter, 106 91, Stockholm, Sweden.(2)Philips Mammography Solutions, 164 40, Kista, Sweden.(3)Philips Research, 164 40, Kista, Sweden.PURPOSE: Digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) is becoming an important part ofbreast cancer screening and diagnosis. Compared to 2D mammography, tomosynthesis introduces limited 3D resolution, but maintains high in-plane resolution, lowdose and allows for similar clinical protocols. The scanning motion and obliqueprojections of tomosynthesis acquisitions introduce shift-variance to the imagequality, in addition to effects such as source blurring and geometricmagnification. Shiftvariant detector response caused by oblique incidence hasbeen extensively studied previously and is most easily mitigated by letting thesource and detector move in sync. In addition, conical reconstruction grids,i.e., a grid aligned with the central tomosynthesis projection, have beenproposed to compensate for magnification effects. This paper introduces ashift-variant cascaded systems model for tomosynthesis and validates it againstmeasurements. As an example, the model was used to investigate the shift-varianceof a tomosynthesis system.METHODS: The shift-variant cascaded systems model was validated on a slitscanningphoton-counting DBT system, with synchronous source-detector movement, usingsimple back-projection in a conical reconstruction volume. The modulationtransfer function (MTF), normalized noise-power spectrum (NNPS), and detectivequantum efficiency (DQE) were used as figures of merit. Simulations wereperformed for single points while measurements were done over a finite volume,assuming local shift invariance. To investigate the full extent ofshift-variance, 80 locations across the volume were simulated and the MTF and DQEat 2.5 lp/mm were calculated as a function of position.RESULTS: The simulated metrics generally agreed well with their correspondingmeasurements. The frequency at 50% MTF along the scan direction showed arelatively small variation, ranging from 2.1 to 2.4 lp/mm for the differentlocations. The frequency at 50% MTF along the chest-mammilla direction showed alarger variation, ranging from 2.9 to 3.8 lp/mm. All points exhibited a similarlyshaped NNPS but the noise magnitude varied with slice height. The zero-frequency DQE in reconstructed slices was lower than that of the projections, an effectlikely caused by noise-aliasing increasing the zero-frequency noise.CONCLUSIONS: A shift-variant cascaded systems model has been developed forslitscanning tomosynthesis using simple back-projection. The model wassuccessfully validated against measurements. Even though the study was performed on a slitscanning system, several parts of the framework can be applied andextended to other tomosynthesis geometries. The conical reconstruction grid haslow variation in image quality in the scan direction where the 3D information is acquired, but source and geometric magnification still dominate in the slitdirection, causing a larger variation in image quality. We conclude that imagequality is close to shift-invariant in the scan direction, but not in the height and chest-mammilla directions, and we recommend that small measurement volumesare used when measuring image quality in these directions to minimize the effectsof shift variance. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.DOI: 10.1002/mp.13116 PMID: 30091470 